安徽江准汽车集团股份有限公司

Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Group Corp.,Ltd.

安徽省合肥市东流路176号
邮编：230022
电话：0551-62296712
E-mail: csr@jac.com.cn
公司网址：http//:www.jac.com.cn

Address; Hefei, Anhui Province eastward Road 176

Code: 230022

Tel; 0551 -62296688

E-mail; csr@jac.com.cn

Website; http / /; www.jac.com.cn

J八CD：准度车

2016

安徽江淮汽车集团股份有限公司

社会责任报吿

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT

Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Group Corp.,Ltd.

MCU关键定量指标数据库

www.mqi.orgxn

本报告披露了江淮汽车2016年履行社会责任
推进可持续发展

追求综合价值最大化的理念、行为、绩效和2017年展望

This report discloses the theo「y，activities and performance of JAC
to fulfill its social responsibilities,
to propell the sustainable development and
to pursue the maximized comprehensive value in 2015
as well as its prospect for 2016.

				l〇〇z		IO	
	REPORT PREFACE	SYSTEM SECURITY	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE	PEOPLE-ORIENTED	GREEN MANUFACTURING	LEADING QUALITY
	报告前言	体系保障	创新发展	协调发展	绿色发展	开放发展	共享发展
2016社会责任报告安徽江淮汽车集团股份有限公司 Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Group Corp.,Ltd.			2015 Social Responsibility Report /		'Report preface	2016社会责任报告	/ 报告前言

REPORT PROFILE	REPORT CONTENTS
报告概况	报告目录

报告可靠性保证

公司保证报告内容不存在任何虚假记载、误导性陈述或重大
遗漏，并对其内容的真实性、准确性和完整性承担责任。

报告可靠性保证

公司保证报告内容不存在任何虚假记载、误导性陈述或重大
遗漏，并对其内容的真实性、准确性和完整性承担责任。

报告前言

Report Preface

关键绩效表

Key Performance Indicator

报告组织范围

安徽江淮汽车集团股份有限公司（参见公司组织结构），报
告中“公司”江淮汽车”、“JAC”均指安徽江淮汽
车集团股份有限公司，特别说明的除外。

报告组织范围

安徽江淮汽车集团股份有限公司（参见公司组织结构），报
告中“公司”江淮汽车”、“JAC”均指安徽江淮汽
车集团股份有限公司，特别说明的除外。

05企业概况

Report Preface

展望2017

Key Performance Indicator

报告时间范围

公司第7份社会责任报告，报告时间范围为2016年1月1日至
2016年12月31日，部分内容超出上述范围。

报告时间范围

公司第7份社会责任报告，报告时间范围为2016年1月1日至
2016年12月31日，部分内容超出上述范围。

体系保障

全面推进社会责任管理
System Guarantee

to promote the social responsibility management

91可持续发展报告指南索引
Key Performance Indicator

报告发布周期

安徽江淮汽车集团股份有限公司社会责任报告为年度报告。
报告数据说明

本报告披露的财务数据来自各类财务报表，其他数据来自公
司内部统计。本报告中所涉及货币金额以人民币作为计量币
种，特别说明的除外。

报告发布周期

安徽江淮汽车集团股份有限公司社会责任报告为年度报告。

报告数据说明

本报告披露的财务数据来自各类财务报表，其他数据来自公
司内部统计。本报告中所涉及货币金额以人民币作为计量币
种，特别说明的除外。

报告参考标准

《中国企业社会责任报告编写指南》

《中国工业企业及工业协会社会责任指南》

报告发布形式及解读

本报告以纸质版和网络版两种形式提供，其中网络版报告

见网站：http://www.jac.com.cn/duty/index.htm

公司地址：安徽省合肥市东流路176号

邮政编码：230022

电话=0551-62296688

传真=0551-62296687

E-mail:csr@jac.com.cn

官方微博、微信：@江淮汽车、江淮汽车

公司网址：http://www.jac.com.cn

报告参考标准

《中国企业社会责任报告编写指南》

《中国工业企业及工业协会社会责任指南》

报告发布形式及解读

本报告以纸质版和网络版两种形式提供，其中网络版报告见

网站：http://www.jac.com.cn/duty/index.htm

公司地址：安徽省合肥市东流路176号

邮政编码：230022

电话：0551-62296688

传真=0551-62296687

E-mail:csr@jac.com.cn

官方微博、微信：@江淮汽车、江淮汽车

公司网土止：http://www.jac.com.cn

20	创新发展	93	相关方评价
	促进社会可持续发展		Key Performance Indicator
	System Guarantee  to promote the social responsibility management		
38	协调发展	95	意见反馈表
	筑建和谐共蠃的大协同体		Key Performance Indicator
	System Guarantee  to promote the social responsibility management		
57	绿色发展  建设生态安全型企业		
	System Guarantee  to promote the social responsibility management		
68	开放发展  共创互利合作新格局		
	System Guarantee  to promote the social responsibility management		
76	共享发展  共创互利合作新格局		
	System Guarantee  to promote the social responsibility management		

Foreword by
the Chairman

董事长致辞

董事长、党委书记

安进

Chairman and party secretary
An Jin

			三〇〇三		IO	©
REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION  创新发展	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTURING  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface 2016社会贡任报告	/ 报告刖自

2016年是“十三五”的开局之年，也是江淮汽车艰苦奋
斗、向上突破的一年。面对复杂的宏观经济环境和众多不利
的竞争态势，江淮汽车主动适应经济新常态，牢牢把握汽车
行业发展趋势与需求端的结构变化，保持战略定力，积蓄内
生动力，成功实现了 “十三五”的“开门红”。

这一年，江汽汽车销量达到64.33万辆，同比增长
9.43%，实现营业收入524.91亿元，同比增长13.16%;月
销进入“五万时代n，规模迈上新台阶，市场地位日益巩
固，提交了一份令人满意的“成绩单”，为中国制造业创新
发展做出了积极贡献。

自2011年发布首份责任报告以来，江淮汽车逐步建立起
较为全面的社会责任管理体系，始终坚持“为员工谋幸福、
为社会做贡献”的社会责任观，在努力发展自身的同时，携
手利益相关方共同推动整个汽车产业链的可持续发展，积极
构建和谐共赢的生存环境。

当下，环境保护和节能减排成为社会关注的焦点。随着
全球汽车保有量的快速增长，构建“人•车”和谐的社会环
境是车企承担的重要社会责任。作为负责任的国企，江淮汽

车以自主创新为发力点，采用先进工艺和设备，坚持传统节
能技术和新能源汽车技术的创新成果运用，积极为全球用户
提供越来越优质的汽车产品和服务。

2017年，江淮汽车将继续践行“敬客经营、质量为本、
求真务实”的核心价值观，坚决贯彻“品牌向上化、技术领
先化、产品平台化、开发迭代化、制造精益化、市场国际
化”的要求，为把江淮汽车打造成“有效益、有技术、有品
质、有特色、有规模”的百万量级的汽车企业集团，为助推
中国品牌向上突破而努力奋斗！

安徽江淮汽车集团股份有限公司董事长、党委书记

The year 2015 was the last year of the “12th 5-year plan” as well as the year with rapid & stable growth and fruitful
achievement. Under the instruction of “made in China 2025” , JAC stuck to its double-wheel driving policy of “structure
adjustment & method transformation” to accelerate the updating and to obtain the up-going performance against the whole
declining economy. The “12th 5-year plan” successfully ended up with the sales amount 5.879 hundred thousand units in 2015,
a new record of 26.5% up.

During the whole “12th 5-year plan” , the accumulated sales volume was 2.6 million units with the revenue of 20 billion
RMB, tax payment of 10 billion and the R&D investment of 6.6 billion. JAC has turned from the comprehensive enterprise of both
commercial and passenger vehicles at the beginning of the 12th 5-year plan to becoming the comprehensive enterprise of both
advanced & traditional and new energy vehicles which in turn enhanced the enterprise force and further increased the
employees’ income. These hard-earned achievements are quite inspiring and are bringing the economic benefits, social benefits,
positive recognition from the industry and society, grand energy into JAC as well as the confidence and solid foundation for starting
the 13th 5-yea「plan.

The year 2016 is the beginning of the 13th 5-year plan during which JAC will keep the five concepts from the fifth Plenary
Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee of “innovative development, coordinated development, green development, open
development and shared development" as its instruction, “making commercial vehicle stronger and greater, making passenger
vehicle accurate and refined, strongly developing new energy vehicle" as its policy, “customer-oriented operation, quality—based
and reality—centered” as its core value, “energy-saving, environment—protecting, safe and intelligent” as its key technology
R&D route, to strengthen the emission & fuel consumption control, to become the resource—saving and environment—friendly
enterprise, to form a new advantage in the new competition, to produce middle-high end products and to write the greater
developing page toward our target of the million-unit comprehensive auto group!

Chairman and party secretary of
Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co” Ltd

An Jin

P/03

\

			劣〇三		IO	
REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	INDEPENDEf们 NNOVATIOM  创新发展	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTURJNG  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface	2016 社会责任报告	/	报告削后

这是江淮汽车的第7份社会责任报告，我们始终坚持以
社会责仃报告为载体，主动披露企业社会a任绩效，传遍社
会寅仔搜念，积极与我们的相关方共建和ig文明的社

?016年，江淮汽车贯彻"以效益为屮心，以战略为马
向，以发展为主线，以变单为动力”的指导思想，深入推洪
“四个转变”，开展“敬客经营”系列活动，持续追求客户
满意。

"为员工谋幸福，为社会做贡献”足江淮汽车坚定的社
会责仃观。公始终朽员工的发展4企业的发展紧密相联，
将员丄视为公QktS的财_s',全ft保_员1合法权益，将
关爰员工的各项举措落到实处；R时，公司也积极回馈社
会，发挥自身资源优势，携手相关方共R参与，持续开展关
爰留守儿童、对□扶贫、绿色出行等系列公益丨5动，为社会
奉献爱心

作为一名负Sf[的企业，江淮汽车深知"为消费者提供

越来越满意的汽车产品”是企业生产发展的根本。我们始终
以“客户满意”为发展动力，坚持“节能、安全、环保、智
能”关键技术硏发路线不动摇，大力发展新技术、新材料、
新丄艺的运用，全力打造自主品牌汽车的核心竞争力。

2017年是充满希望与挑战的一年，江淮汽车将积极担当
社会责任，持续推进品牌向上，进一江贯彻落实“做强做大
商用车、做精做优乘用车、大力发展新能源车”的战略方
向，全面深化机制变革，依法合规经营，力争在十三五末，
发屐成为百万辆级的综合型汽车企业团I为屮国汽车品牌
的奋力崛起做出江淮汽车人的努力和5献！

安徽江淮汽车集团股份有限公司总经理

沒/>*7

The year 2015 was the last year of the “12th 5-year plan” as well as the year with rapid &. stable growth and fruitful
achievement. Under the instruction of “made in China 2025” , JAC stuck to its double-wheel driving policy of “structure
adjustment & method transformation” to accelerate the updating and to obtain the up-going performance against the whole
declining economy. The “12th 5-year plan” successfully ended up with the sales amount 5.879 hundred thousand units in 2015,
a new record of 26.5% up.

During the whole “12th 5—year plan” , the accumulated sales volume was 2.6 million units with the revenue of 20 billion
RMB, tax payment of 10 billion and the R&D investment of 6.6 billion. JAC has turned from the comprehensive enterprise of both
commercial and passenger vehicles at the beginning of the 12th 5-year plan to becoming the comprehensive enterprise of both
advanced & traditional and new energy vehicles which in turn enhanced the enterprise force and further increased the
employees’ income. These hard-earned achievements are quite inspiring and are bringing the economic benefits, social benefits,
positive recognition from the industry and society, grand energy into JAC as well as the confidence and solid foundation for starting
the 13th 5-year plan.

The year 2016 is the beginning of the 13th 5-year plan during which JAC will keep the five concepts from the fifth Plenary
Session of the 18th CPC Central Committee of “innovative development, coordinated development, green development, open
development and shared development” as its instruction, “making commercial vehicle stronger and greater, making passenger
vehicle accurate and refined, strongly developing new energy vehicle" as its policy, “customer—oriented operation, quality-based
and reality—centered” as its core value, “energy-saving, environment—protecting, safe and intelligent” as its key technology
R&D route, to strengthen the emission & fuel consumption control, to become the resource-saving and environment-friendly
enterprise, to form a new advantage in the new competition, to produce middle-high end products and to write the greater
developing page toward our target of the million-unit comprehensive auto group!

General Manager of Anhui Jianghuai
Automobile Co.; Ltd.

Xieng Xingchu

COMPANY PROFILE

企业概况

安徽江浪汽车《4团股份有限公司，总部位于安徽合肥，是一家氩商用车、乘用车及动力总成研发、制造、销售和服务于一
体的综台32汽车厂商。公司产品主要是#车和S车底盘，其中整车产品分为乘用车和商用车，乘If」车包括SUV、MPV、轿
车、iEV纯屯动乘用车等产品，商用车产品包活轻型货车、重型货车、多功能商用车、客车等产品。2001年在上海证券交
易所上市，股票代码600418。

2016年公司销售各受汽车及晚&:_6小33万_,同比增K9.43%,实现营业收入524.91亿元，同比增K13.16%,实现归
屈于上…公司股东的净利;M11.62亿元，R比增K 35.49%。载止2016年底，从业人员约2.9万人。

China Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as JAC) was founded in 1999 and headquarter is
located in Anhui Hefei. JAC is a comprehensive automaker with full-line independent brand vehicles in China, including
commercial vehicle, passenger car, powertrain, R&D, manufacture, sales, service and relevant multi business.

JAC has achieved an annual production capacity of 700,000 units and engine annual capacity of more than 800,000
units. JAC listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (600418) in 2001. And until the end of 2015, the total assets of
company reached 78.841 billion Yuan and more than 32000 employees.

REPORT PREFACE

报告前言

SYSTEM SECURITY	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE	PEOPLE-ORIENTED

体系保障	创新发展	协调发展	绿色发展

GREEN MANUFACTURING

开放发展

LEADING QUALITY

共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface

2016社会责任报告/报告前言

|1 业布局 BUSINESS LAYOUT

七大整车生产基地

The seven main
production bases

JAC合肥本部生产基地
JAC Automobile Hefei headquarters

JAC蒙城生产基地
JAC Automobile Hefei headquarters

JAC扬州生产基地
JAC Automobile Hefei headquarters

JAC遂宁生产基地
JAC Automobile Hefei headquarters

JAC阜阳生产基地
JAC Automobile Hefei headquarters

JAC青州生产基地
JAC Automobile Hefei headquarters

JAC安庆生产基池
JAC Automobile Hefei headquarters

两大海外研发中心

The r&cl center of
the two seas

合肥配套发动机生产基地

Hefei matched engine
Production base

四大事业

The big four business

乘用车

Powertrain

汽车服务
Powertrain

■Mk ms,

Enn

JAC意大利研发中心
JAC Automobile Hefei headquarters

JAC日本研发中心

JAC Automobile Hefei headquarters

动力总成
Powertrain

商用车

Powertrain

自1999年成立至今，江淮汽车不断优化产品结构和产业布局，已形成合肥、蒙城、青州、扬州、遂宁、阜阳、安庆七大
整车生产基地、两大海外研发中心和合肥配套发动机生产基地布局，拥有商用车、乘用车、动力总成和汽车服务四大事业。

Since it was founded in 1999, jianghuai auto constantly optimize the product structure and industrial layout, hefei has
been formed, Montreal, qingzhou, yangzhou, suining, fuyang, anqing seven vehicle production base, two overseas r&d
center and form a complete set of production base layout engine, hefei has commercial vehicles, passenger cars,
powertrain, and auto service four major career.

籲轻型货车产品不断优化，竞争力显著增强
2016年累计销售轻型货车19.22万辆，同比增长
16.40%。轻型货车全系列产品实现国V覆盖，并以高
于行业的增幅，实现整体规模和市场占有率的提升，行
业地位得到进一步巩固。

• Light truck products are continuously optimized and competitive
In 2016, 19.22 million light trucks were sold, up 16.40 percent
year on year. Light trucks full range product realization V
coverage, and higher than the growth of the industry, to realize
the overall scale and market share has increased, further
consolidate industry status.

鲁重型货车规模上新台阶

2016年累计销售重型货车4.31万辆，同比增长
43.95%，保持行业第六的位置。同时载货车发展迅速，居
于行业前三。

• A new step on the scale of heavy trucks

In 2016, the total sales of heavy trucks reached 431, 000
vehicles, up 43.95% year on year, keeping the industry sixth
position. Meanwhile, trucks are developing rapidly in the first
three sectors of the industry.

*乘用车不断推陈出新

2016年乘用车累计销售36.72万辆，同比增长6.彳彳％。公
司三代S3、二代S2、S2mini相继上市，小型SUV产品线
不断丰富，S3保持细分市场销售冠军，继续发挥规模和效
益支柱作用。MPV产品线全面升级，二代M5、M3宜家
版、M4成功上市，强化了产品组合优势，市场销售稳步提
升。坚持高档高品，搭载白金传动系的中高端轿车瑞风
A60成功上市，成为品牌向上的有力支撑。

• A new step on the scale of heavy trucks

The total number of passenger cars sold in 2016 was 36.72
million, up 6.11 percent year on year. The company has three
generations of S3, second generation S2, S2mini successively
listed, the small SUV product line is abundant, S3 maintains the
market sales champion, and continues to play the role of scale
and efficiency. The MPV product line has been upgraded
comprehensively, the M5? M3 ikea and M4 have been
successfully listed, strengthened the product combination
advantage and the market sales steadily improved. Insist on
high-grade high-quality goods, carry platinum drive the medium
high end car of the high end car of the high end car to go public,
become the strong support of the brand up.

♦新能源示范推广成果显著

2016年公司新能源乘用车销售彳8,369辆，同比增长
74.59%，在新能源技术积累、市场推广方面具备先发优
势；同时，公司与华霆动力、巨一自动化分别在电池系
统、电机电控方面开展合资合作，进一步提升了公司在新
能源核心产业链方面的协同优势。

• A new step on the scale of heavy trucks
In 2016, the company sold 18,369 new energy passenger
vehicles, an increase of 74.59 percent year on year7 and a first-
mover advantage in the accumulation of new energy
technologies and marketing. At the same time, the company with
woti-meeting power, huge automation in battery system, motor
control in joint venture cooperation, further enhance the
company's core in the new energy industry chain synergy.

鲁国际业务结构调整成效明显

际业务坚持重点市场、重点客户、重点产品、重点突破的
策略，大力推进产品结构和市场结构优化。2016年实现出
口 5.67万辆，排名提升至行业第五位，为公司完成全年目
标任务做出重要贡献。

• A new step on the scale of heavy trucks
We will continue to focus on key markets, key customers, key
products and key breakthrough strategies, and vigorously
advance product structure and market structure optimization. In
2016, we exported 567, 000 vehicles, ranking fifth in the industry
and making important contribution to the company's full-year
target mission.

鲁汽车金融业务蓬勃发展

汽车金融公司和汽车融资担保公司的成立，扩充了江淮汽
车的汽车服务事业，为经销商库存和零售客户融资提供了
更优质的服务。

MOI



大诞疋B

www.ma

git

.〇「

• A new step on the scale of heavy trucks

Auto financing companies and the establishment of the auto
financing guarantee company expanded jianghuai auto car
service business, financing for dealer inventories, and retail
customers provide more quality services.

					IO	
REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION  创新发展	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTURING  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展
		2015	Social Responsibility Report )	' Report preface	2016社会责任报告	/报告前言

组织结构图BUSINESS LAYOUT

江淮专用汽车有限公司

Anhui Jianghuai Specail Vehicle Co.,Ltd.

安徽江汽物流有限公司

Hefei AxleCo.J.td.

合肥车桥有限责任公司

Anhui Jianghui 丨ogistics Co.，Ltd.

江淮汽车有限公司

Hefei Tongda Jianghuai Automobile Co.,Ltd.

同大江淮汽车车身有限公司

Anhui Sun ray Gear Trasmisskm Co.,Ltd.

安徽星瑞齿轮传动有限公司

Hefei Jianghuai Automobile Financing Guarantee Co.,Ltd.

江淮汽车融资担保有限公司

Anhui Anchi Autombile Co.,Ltd.

江淮安驰汽车有限公司

Anhui Jianghui lmport& Export Trade Co.J.td.

江汽进出口贸易有限公司

Sichuan Jianghuai Automobile Co.,Ltd.

四川江淮汽车有限公司

JAC-ltaly R&D Center

JAC-意大利中心

JAC- Japanses R&D Center

JAC-曰本中心

Anhui Jianghui Casting Co.,Ltd.

合肥江淮铸造有限公司

Anhui Jianghui Automobile Investment Co., Ltd

安徽江汽投资有限公司

Anhui Jianghui Fuzheng Car body Equipment Co., Lta

福臻车体装备有限公司

Yangzhou Jianghuai Light-duty Automobile Co., Ltd

扬州江淮轻型汽车有限公司

Fortune Auto Finance Co., Ltd

北京江淮新能源汽车有限公司

Anhui Jianghui Navistar Diesel Co., Ltd

厦门江淮新能源汽车有限公司

Hefei Jianghuai Chaoyang Diesel Engine Co., Ltd

深圳江淮新能源汽车有限公司

Hefei Yunhe Jiangsen Chair Co., Ltd

瑞福德汽车金融有限公司

Anhui Jianghui Navistar Diesel Co., Ltd

江淮纳威司达柴油发动机有限公司

Hefei Jianghuai Chaoyang Diesel Engine Co., Ltd

合肥江淮朝柴动力有限公司

Hefei Yunhe Jiangsen Chair Co., Ltd

总经理办公室

General manager office

外事办公室

Foreign Affairs Office

企业管理部（卓越办）

Enterprise management department

投资管理部

Investment Management Department

质置管理部

Quality Control Department

战略与市场管理部

Strategy and market management department

安全生产管理部

Safety Maunfacture management department

财务部

Financia 丨 department

人力资源部

Human Resources Department

信息管理部

Information Management Department

集中采购部

Purchasing Department

法务部

Law Department

审计部

Audit Department

证券部（董事会办公室）

Stock Department

品牌运营与公共关系部

Branding and public relations department

产品规划部

Produd Planning department

客户关系管理部

Customer relationship management department

宣传部

party-masses working department

规划发展部

Propaganda Department

供应商管理部

Planning and development Department

招标办公室

Training centre

培训中心

Labor union

党委工作部

Customer relationship management department

统战部

party-masses working department

组织部

Propaganda Department

纪委办公室

Planning and development Department

纪检监察部

Training centre

群团工作部

Labor union

工会

Labor union

企业风险控制BUSINESS LAYOUT

公司实现了集团股份公司及其控股子公司内控体系的全覆盖，并进一步推进全面风险管理。通过内部控制自我评价、专
项审计和外部审计多层次、全方位的审视企业管理中存在的问题和薄弱环节，堵塞管理漏洞，提升风险防控能力。

公司通过风险管理报告、专项审计报告和培训会议等多种方式培育风险管理文化，树立正确的风险管理理念，提高员工
的风险防控意识。并按照内部控制的五大要素和五大原则，完善以控制风险和防范舞弊为中心，以控制标准和评价标准为主
体的基于风险管理为导向的内部控制体系。

公司制定《公司重要重大经营风险信息快报制度》，建立经营风险信息传递与沟通机制，将发现的重要风险及时预警和
汇报，提出和落实风险管理策略和实施方案。

报告期内，公司内部控制没有发现重大缺陷，内部控制设计合理、执行有效。

In order to strengthen the effective of internal control and risk management system, JAC cultivates risk management
culture through conference, training and other ways, and builds the correct risk management concept to enhance staff; s
risk management consciousness. According to internal control five elements and principles, JAC improves its internal
control system as the center of risk control and fraud prevention and based on control and evaluation standard.

JAC makes 'JAC major and important operating risk information express regulation; and establishes the operating
risk information express and communication mechanism, which can timely warn and report the important risk and put
forward the management strategy and implementation plan.

During the period of the report, there is no any major faultiness JAC internal control system and the design of

internal control	is reasonable and effective.	
企业参与社团组纟只BUSINESS LAYOUT		
[序号No	协会名称Associations	公司角色As
01	中国汽车协会  China Automobile Association	副会长单位 Vice President
02	中国机械工业管理协会 China Machinery Industry Management Association	常务理事单位 , Executive Director
03	中国企业联合会  China Enterprise Confederation	理事单位  Councilman
04	中国汽车人才研究会  China Automobile Talents Union	副理事长单位  Vice Director
05	中国机械工业教育协会  China Machinery Industry Education Association	理事单位 | Councilman
06	中国汽车工程协会  China Automobile Project Association	常务理事单位 Executive Director
07 |	中国质量协会  China Quality Association	会员单位 | Membership
08	中国汽车工业科学技术奖励基金委员会 China Automobile Industry Science Technology Reward Committee	理事单位 Councilman
09	中汽协市场贸易委员会 China Automobile Association Market Trading Committee	主任委员单位 Director Membership
10	中汽协会汽车零部件再制造分会 China Automobile Association Spare Parts Re-Producing Branch	会员单位 Membership
11	安徽省企业家联合会 Anhui Entrepreneur Federation	副会长单位 Vice President
12 j	安徽工业经济联合会  Anhui Industry & Economy Federation	副会长单位 | Vice President



www.mqi.orq.cn

REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  创新发展 协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTURING  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展
		2015 Social Responsibility Report i	'Report preface	2016社会责任报告	/报告前言

领导关怀 BUSINESS LAYOUT

2016年4月26日上午，中共中央总书记、国家主席、中央军委主席习近平在合肥考察时，视察江淮iEV6S纯电动车
和1.5TGDI缸内直喷汽油发动机、DCT双离合器自动变速箱，并饶有兴趣地乘坐iEV6S，了解车辆的性能和销售情
况，对江淮汽车的自主创新成果予以首肯。

CPC central committee general secretary and state President and central military commission President xi
jinping in hefei examine, inspect jianghuai iEV6S pure electric cars and 1.5 TGDI in cylinder direct injection
gasoline engine, DCT dual clutch automatic transmission, and with interest on iEV6S, understand the
performance of the vehicle and sales, independent innovation achievements of jianghuai auto approval.

2016年11月3日，在中哈总理第三次会晤期间，中共中央政治局常委，
国务院总理李克强和哈萨克斯坦总理萨金塔耶夫共同见证哈萨克斯坦江
淮汽车KD工厂项目启动仪式。

On November 3, 2016, during the third meeting, the prime
minister, the political bureau of the CPC central committee, state
council premier li keqiang and Kazakhstan's prime minister, Mr Jinta
witness kazakhstan jianghuai auto KD plant project start ceremony.

中共中央政治局委员、国务院副总理马凯视察江淮汽车。他深入生产一
线，察看江淮新能源汽车的生产和装配，了解产品示范推广与技术掌握
情况，高度肯定江淮汽车在新能源汽车领域示范推广成果。

Ma kai, a member of the political bureau of the CPC central
committee and vice premier of the state council, inspected jianghuai
automobile. View a comprehensive production line and production and
assembly of jianghuai new energy vehicles, master knowledge of
product promotion and demonstration technology, highly sure jianghuai
auto demonstrated and achievements in the field of new energy
vehicles.

				l〇〇z		IO	
	REPORT PREFACE	SYSTEM SECURITY	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE	PEOPLE-ORIENTED	GREEN MANUFACTURING	LEADING QUALITY
	报告前言	体系保障	创新发展	协调发展	绿色发展	开放发展	共享发展
2016社会责任报告安徽江淮汽车集团股份有限公司 Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Group Corp.,Ltd.			2015 Social Responsibility Report /		'Report preface	2016社会责任报告	/ 报告前言

江淮汽车阿尔及利亚轻卡KD工厂签字仪式在首都阿尔及尔
隆重举行,这是江淮汽:车在非洲大陆的第一个轻卡KD工厂。
The signing ceremony of jianghuai automobile Algerian light KD
factory was held in Algiers, capital of the capital Algiers, which
is the first KD factory in the African continent.

江淮汽车对外发布乘用车全新LOGO。新标识由原本的“五
星”演化成“盾牌JAC'拉开江淮品牌内涵升级的重要序幕。
The signing ceremony of jianghuai automobile Algerian light KD
factory was held in Algiers, capital of the capital Algiers, which
is the first KD factory in the African continent.

江淮汽车“爱心送考”公益活动正式启动，35辆江淮

iEV纯电动汽车组成江淮新能源爱心车队，为高考学子保
驾护航。

The signing ceremony of jianghuai automobile Algerian light KD
factory was held in Algiers, capital of the capital Algiers, which
is the first KD factory in the African continent.

第十二届全国人民代表大会第四次会议在北京人民大会堂开
幕。全国人大代表、江淮汽车董事长安雅吉合汽车产业现状和

工作实践，围绕节能减排、创新发展、供给侧改革、加快新能
源汽车发展等焦点问题和话题，为中国经济发展建言献策。

The signing ceremony of jianghuai automobile Algerian light KD
factory was held in Algiers, capital of the capital Algiers, which
is the first KD factory in the African continent.

5月23日 On January 7

12月22日On January 7

江淮汽车荣获“年度企业社会责任”奖。

The signing ceremony of jianghuai automobile Algerian light KD
factory was held in Algiers, capital of the capital Algiers, which
is the first KD factory in the African continent.

江淮汽车成为安徽首家“江淮小记者社会实践基地”，为安

黴广大青少年搭建了一个学习、了解'汽车文化的良好平台。

The signing ceremony of jianghuai automobile Algerian light KD
factory was held in Algiers, capital of the capital Algiers, which
is the first KD factory in the African continent.

8月18日 On January 7

<§)

(2>



“9.3大阅兵”老兵方阵受阅客车一一安凯宝斯通正式被

中国人民革命军事博物馆永久收藏，这是国家军事博物馆
收藏的国内首款自主品牌客车。

The signing ceremony of jianghuai automobile Algerian light KD
factory was held in Algiers, capital of the capital Algiers, which
is the first KD factory in the African continent.

6月12日 On January 7

江淮汽车与安徽广播电视台联合举办第四季“牵手•瑞风行动

让孩子不孤单”大型公益活动正式拉开帷幕，走进凤阳、颖
东、东至、长轉4个地区撥数]留守儿童送S关心与关爰。

The signing ceremony of jianghuai automobile Algerian light KD
factory was held in Algiers, capital of the capital Algiers, which
is the first KD factory in the African continent.







江淮汽车与蓝海豚卡车之声携手打造的中国商用车品牌公

益活动一一 “江淮平安行”正式启动，此项活动旨在聚焦
道路安全和卡车人的安全驾驶，提高中国商用车行业安全
素养。

The signing ceremony of jianghuai automobile Algerian light KD
factory was held in Algiers, capital of the capital Algiers, which
is the first KD factory in the African continent.

6月26日上午 On January 7

2016中国工业行业企业社会贵任报告发布会

Wffd丨埔沏裊矜押推动发W

“2016中国工业行业企业社会责簡告发布会”扫匕京国家会
议中心隆重召开。江進汽车正式发布2015年度社会责任报告。

The signing ceremony of jianghuai automobile Algerian light KD
factory was held in Algiers, capital of the capital Algiers, which is
the first KD factory in the African continent.



江淮iEV5纯电驱动系统荣获“‘中国心’2016年度新
能源汽车动力系统优秀奖”。

The signing ceremony of jianghuai automobile Algerian light KD
factory was held in Algiers, capital of the capital Algiers, which
is the first KD factory in the African continent.

12月1日 On January 7

江淮汽车自主研发的1.5L TGDI发动机再获“ ‘中国
心’2016年度十佳发动机”称号。自2009年参加评
选活动以来，公司共有八款发动机获得“ ‘中国
心’全国十佳发动机”称号。

The signing ceremony of jianghuai automobile Algerian light KD
factory was held in Algiers, capital of the capital Algiers, which
is the first KD factory in the African continent.

“瑞风MPV慈善中国行”在河北元坊小学拉开帷幕，此项活
动总计六站活动，840多名贫困山区儿童受益。

The signing ceremony of jianghuai automobile Algerian light KD
factory was held in Algiers, capital of the capital Algiers, which
is the first KD factory in the African continent.

体系保障

全面推进社会责任管理

SYSTEM GUARANTEE

Gomprehensively implementing social
responsibility management

REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	INDEPENDENT INMOVATION PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  创新发展 协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTURING  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展
		2015 Social Responsibility Report 1	'Report preface	2016社会责任报告	/体系保障

THE ENTERPRISE CULTURE

企业文化

JAC文化体系模型
JAC culture system model

价值引领

Value Guide

精神支柱

		
	准痊车	

愿景

Vision

使命

Mission

核心价值观
Vision

有效齙富技氈裏品质

经营方针
BusinessPolicy

1	系统思考	团队学习	经营方针	协调平衡	追求卓越
	Systematic  Thinking	Team  Learning	BusinessPolicy	Balance  Coordinating	Excellence  Pursuing

Value Guide

JAC CORPORATE SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY

企业社会责任观

为员工谋幸福，为社会做贡献

seeking the happiness for employees and making contribution to the society

					IO	
REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURTTV  体系保障	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION  创新发展	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTURING  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展
		2015 Social Responsibility Report i		'Report preface	2016社会责任报告	/体系保障

责任管理臭型具体内容Liability management mode丨

社会责任观

内涵iifts

具体举措

为员工谋幸福

以员工为中心，不断追求员工的物质和精神幸
福，在企业不断发展的同时，员工的利益及员
工的幸福指数能够得到不断地提示和保障。
“为员工谋幸福”是JAC每一任领导集体最朴
素的追求和最神圣的使命。

建立“以人为本”的人力资源开发和管理的工作系
统、激励机制、员工培训和教育系统，以发挥和调动
员工的潜能，并通过“待遇留人、事业留人、感情留
人”营造充分发挥员工能力的良好环境。

Connotation: In order to ensure each of our
employees to live a meaningful life while at
work, JAC considers the constant pursuit of
happiness both on material and spiritual as
the center. Seeking happiness for employees
is JAC each leader collectives1 most plain
pursue and the most sacred mission .

Connotation: In order to ensure each of our
employees to live a meaningful life while at work,
JAC considers the constant pursuit of happiness
both on material and spiritual as the center. Seeking
happiness for employees is JAC each leader
collectives7 most plain pursue and the most sacred
mission .

为社会做贡献

通过不断进步的产品和服务为环境的友好和社
会的和谐作出贡献，以可持续的稳健发展为社
会不断创造财富。

•诚信经营

加强合规管理，诚信经营，完善公司治理，加强内控
体系建设；

Making contribution to a friendly environment
and harmonious society by continuous
improvement of products and service, as well
as creating wealth for the society by
continuous sound development.	'

Integrity Management:	Enhancing compliance

management and credit management, improving
corporate governance, strengthening the internal
control system

•技术创新

以市场为导向，严格执行NAM流程，持续提升产品
品质

Market-oriented, JAC strictly implies the NAM
process and continuously improve product quality

•服务市场

持续提升服务品质，关注客户体验，持续开展用户满
意度调查，缺陷产品汽车召回

Focusing on the customer experience, ongoing
customer satisfaction survey and defective auto
recall, JAC continues to improve its service quality

•地方贡献

纳税稳定，增加就业机会

JAC contributes to the local market by stable tax
payment and increasing opportunities of employment.

•社会公益

积极开展志愿者活动，以弱势群体为重点扶助对象，
引导全体员工热心公益事业

Guiding all the employees to enthusiastically
participate in charity, focusing on vulnerable groups
as the assistance objects, JAC actively carries out
volunteer activities

•环境责任

加大新技术、新材料及新工艺的应用，坚持发展循环
经济，实现绿色生产；倡导绿色办公，开展环保公益
活动。

Increasing the application of new technology, new
materials and new craft, insisting the development of
cycle economy, and realizing green production;
proposing green office , as well as carrying out
environmental protection public welfare activities

COMPANY SOCIAL
MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY

企业社会管理责任

贾任机构 BUSINESS LAYOUT

公3成立社会责任g理委,山总经理担f「:委员分主任，其主要职责是决定公司社分sfr丄作的管理方向和目标，审
批公刁社会责任工作总休推进方案，对s大事I页进行决策,，在公司品牌&营与公共关系部设立社会贡任推进秘书处，切责-办
M社整体1作，统一编制、发布社会责仃报告。各亨业单位设立社会责任工作推讲委员*及秘书处组织实施，构建资
源保隐、过程指A全面6控的业务机制，共同_迸社$舌f「的履行和熟实,，

公司根据社金责任管理模式，建立相应的社会责任管理制度，规范引导企业内部践行社会责任1作流程，同时也制定了
相应的社会sfr信息披露制an在每年6月份定叫对外发布。

Company social responsibility management committee, director of committee by the general manager, its main responsibility
is decided to the management of the corporate social responsibility work direction and goals, corporate social responsibility for
examination and approval of the overall efforts to promote plan, make decisions on important matters. In the company branding
and public relations to set up the social responsibility of the secretariat, responsible for coordinating social responsibility of the
whole work, unity, release social responsibility report. Each institution established a work to promote social responsibility
committee and the secretariat of the organization, building resources, process guidance and comprehensive control of business
mechanism, promote the implementation of social responsibility and implement.

Company according to the social responsibility of management mode, set up corresponding social responsibility management
system, standardize work process guide the enterprise to fulfill the social responsibility, but also made the corresponding social
responsibility information disclosure system and in a year in June released on a regular basis.

文化培育 BUSINESS LAYOUT

公极参加中国工业经济联合会及安徽工业经济联合会召开的
社会寅订坫训会议和活动，n根据企业s身发展特点，选择性导入国
内外先讲社会K任g理念；R时以公司全员培训工作为平台，定即
进行全S社会S任fe训及;'5动，促进全员讲行社会K任意丨H提升,，

Companies active in China federation of industrial economy and
industrial economy in anhui federation of the social responsibility of
training sessions and activities, and according to the enterprise own
development characteristic, selective import advanced social
responsibility management concept; At the same time, we will train the
whole staff to improve the awareness of social responsibility.



www.mai.c

REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	1NDEPENDENJT INNOVATION PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  创新发展 协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTURING  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展
		2015 Social Responsibility Report /	1 Report preface	2016社会责任报告	/体系保障

责任绩z效管理BUSINESS LAYOUT

公司认为社分贯任绩效是对原有公q—体化g理的一种提炼，报告期内，公司完善结效g理机制，n在借鉴以往业
绩ga经验的a础上，通过对平衡记分卡管理工具方,去的灵活运阳，结台公司实际经营要求，组织各数据来源单位共同探
讨、拟定了各单位.。016年)a—体化业绩管理方案，从侣标设计、权由分配、管控模式上进行适敁优化和创新。

公g在坚持“月度动态g控、#度自评、年度走访稽核”管拉楨式的s础上，朽各单位到期重点工作纳入月度重点丄作
计划屮，通过月度走访验证'点对点现场检查方式，提升了管理效果。

Company believes social responsibility performance management is a kind of refining of the integration of the original
company, during the reporting period, the company improve the performance management mechanism, and on the basis of using
the experience of previous performance management, through the flexible use of the balanced scorecard management tool
method, combining with the actual business requirements, organize various data source unit to explore, to formulate the units 2016
annual integrated performance management scheme, from the index design, weight distribution, moderate control model,
optimization and innovation.

The company adhere to the ''self-evaluation of dynamic control monthly, quarterly, annual visit to audit” control mode, on the
basis of expires each unit priority into the monthly key work plan, validation by monthly visits, point-to-point way of on-site
inspection, improve the management effect.

贾任沟通 BUSINESS LAYOUT

2016年，公司继续坚持以“反馈、反思、共享”学习环为贡彳T沟通途径，形成公司与利益相X方的艮性互动，积极发挥
企业社会资源优势，实现内外部有效的沟通与共享，并以sfr绩效为准则，监督引导发挥企业屐sm大效应，营边了和谐共
臝的发展环境。

In 2016Jhe company continue to insist on "feedback, reflection, sharing'' learning ring channel for responsibility, fo「m the
positive interactive between the company and the stakeholders, actively take advantage of social resources, to achieve internal
and external effective communication and sharing, and by the responsibility performance, supervision and guidance to play full
effect, the fulfillment of corporate responsibilities to create a harmonious and win-win development environment.

立足现场收集事实

*客户满意度调查；■员工满意度调查;

■400电话、网络论坛、

用户座谈会、经销商座谈会。

7^

r反思
feedback

Truth collection from the scene
參 Customer satisfaction survey

•	Employee satisfaction survey

•	400 hot-line, internet forum,
customer meeting, supplier meeting

举一反三

•汇编《JAC文化典藏》、《员工手册》、《寻梦江淮》等
■开展40+4培训* *组织各类技术交流会。

追问“为什么”，直到我们找到根本原因
■工作改善；

•质量曝光台、实物展览、案例反思。

Draw inferences from former instances

• Editing <JAC Culture Co丨丨ection>，〈Employee Manual〉，〈Dreams in JAC>，etc.
參 <4〇+4> Training ♦丁echnology Exchange Meetings

Keep asking uwhy” ，tilI we find the real reason

•	Work improvement

•	Quality failure exposure, sample exhibition,
case review

责任报告 BUSINESS LAYOUT

2011年以来，公司已迕续发布6年社会a任报告，全面..客观地披露吞公司社会责任ffl念及结效。报告己成为公司加强
利益相关方沟通、传播社会责任理念，完善企业管理模式的重要工具。

Since 2011, JAC has continuously released five annual Social Responsibilities Report, which comprehensively and objectively
disclosure the concept and performance of its social responsibility. The report has become an important tool to strengthen the
communication with stakeholders, spread the concept of social responsibility and improve enterprise management pattern.

创新发展

促进社会可持续发展

SYSTEM GUARANTEE

Gomprehensively implementing social
responsibility management

消费者使用

Customers' use

消费者需求调研

Investigation of
customers demands



新产品
上市销售

New products
release

技术分析与
可行性方案

Technology analysis
and

feasibility scheme

新产品整改
与完善

New products'
rectification
and

improvement

以消费者为中心

设计与制造消费者满意的产品

JAC designed and produced
customers 'satisfactory products
all around customers' demands

新产品开发
与立项
New products'
development
and

projects approval

驾乘测试

Test drive

新广品试制
与试验

New products'
tests and trials

公司始终以“为消费者提供最满意的产品”为发展目的，坚持“节能、安全、环保、智能”关键技术硏发路
线不动揺，大力发展新技术、新材料、新工艺的运用，全力打造自主品牌汽车的核心竞争力。

In purpose of providing the most satisfactory products to customers, JAC always adheres to the R & D guideline
of key technology of 'Energy Saving, Safety, Environmental Protection, and Intelligent Driving1, greatly developing new
technologies, new materials and new art craft, and building up its own core competitiveness as the independent auto
brand.

曾		来	三〇〇三		ID	
REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION  创新发展	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTURING  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface	201 6社会责任报告	/ 创新发展

DEEPEN THE R&D SYSTEM
CONSTRUCTION

深化研发体系建设

公司依据五层次研发体系，完善组织结构，强化核心技术能力建设，提升公司技术研发水平，促进自主研发能力提升。

According to the five-layout research system, JAC has continuously perfected its organization structure, strengthened the
core technology capacity-building, improved the company technology research level, and promoted its self-research ability,
greatly pushing on the five-layout research ability building.

结合公司内外部优秀供应商资源，邀请延锋百
利得、福士零部件、德赛西威等21家供应商开
展路演活动，聚焦车身、电子、底盘等重点领
域，通过“请进来”的方式开拓技术人员视
野，提升专业能力。

Combined with the outstanding supplier of
company internal and external resources,
inviting yanfeng key, and 21 suppliers such as
component, clesai west wei roadshow activities,
focusing on body, electronics, chassis and other
key areas, develop technical personnel by
means of "please come in" field of vision,
enhance professional ability.

与上海交大在新技术研究、技术咨询、竞品分
析、高层次人才培养、试验测试服务等方面稳步
开展各项合作；与中汽中心合作开展曝声源识别
及NVH开发体系建设，推动中国工况标准建
设；与天内所合作不断深入，成立发动机设计研
发中心，在产品开发、行业动态信息发布、能力
建设、人才培养等方面开展深入合作。

To make steady progress in cooperation with
Shanghai in new technical research, technical
consultation, competitive product analysis, high-
level personnel training, test test service, etc. To
develop the noise source recognition and the
development system of the NVH, and promote
the construction of China's operating conditions
standards. The engine was established with
deepening of cooperation, if you do not have the
design research and development centers, in
product development, industry dynamic
information release, capacity building, personnel
training, etc, to carry out in-depth cooperation.

在节能、环保、智能、新能源、轻量化等技术领
域成果丰硕，研发三期碰撞试验室、EMC试验
室、NVH试验室、整车耐久试验室及环境试验
室均正式投入使用，硬件设施的曰益完善，加快
了自主研发能力提升及专业队伍建设的步伐。

In energy saving, environmental protection,
intelligent, new energy, lightweight technology
fields such as fruitful, develop the third phase of
crash simulation, EMC lab and harshness (NVH)
lab, the vehicle durability test and environmental
test chamber are officially put into use, more
perfect hardware facilities, to speed up the
independent research and development, and
improve the capacity of the construction of
professional team.

第五层

贴近市场

快速响应终端用户需求

Close to the market
Fast response to end user requirements

第四层

放眼全球

与全球优秀供应商幵展交流s动

Close to the market

Fast response to end user requirements

第三层

优势互补

产学研联合休充分s动

Close to the market

Fast response to end user requirements

第二层

与“世”俱进

充分发挥海外研发中心的功能和作用

Close to the market

Fast response to end user requirements

第一层

以“我”为主

强化核心技术能力建设

Close to the market

Fast response to end user requirements

优化第五层次研发能力建设，协同推进第五
层次研发系统的产品验证工作，及时向制造
及菅销系统提供技术支持，提高协同的效率
与效益〇

Optimize the fifth level research and
development capability, collaborative promote
the fifth level research and development
system of product verification work, provide
technical support to manufacturing and
marketing system, improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of the synergy.

意大利造型团队持续提升造型研发能力、工程
分析能力和数据制作、模型制作能力，积极幵
展前瞻性造型设计，各产品开发均按计划有序
推进；2016年曰本设计中心度过十周岁生
日，通过项目历练，已建立起成熟的产品设计
开发团队，逐步成为公司先进技术储备、优质
资源整合的平台，是公司产品设计、技术研究
的前沿阵地。

In energy saving, environmental protection,
intelligent, new energy, lightweight technology
fields such as fruitful, develop the third phase
of crash simulation, EMC lab and harshness
(NVH) lab, the vehicle durability test and
environmental test chamber are officially put
into use, more perfect hardware facilities, to
speed up the independent research and
development, and improve the capacity of the
construction of professional team.



NAM流程（第七版）强化研发流程的层级化管理，基于主流程识别一级核心流程，梳理二级子流程，识别各模块三级领
域活动。基于层级化研发流程，识别一二级固定交付物1198项，用于支撑节点门目标达成。

基于法律法规的规定、质量体系的要求，丰富完善流程WBS—览表，使研发流程与业务流程进一步融合，促使各级研发
人员有序规范依次进入NAM流程，高效开展研发工作。

NAM process (seventh edition) to strengthen the research and development process of hierarchical management, based on
the main process to identify core processes, carding secondary sub-processes, identify each module level 3 areas of activity.
Based on the hierarchical development process, the 1198 items of fixed deliverables were identified, and the targets were
achieved.

Based on the provisions of the laws and regulations, quality system requirements, system process WBS schedule to make the
development process and business process integration, further encourage r&d staff at all levels to regulate orderly in turn into
NAM process, efficient research and development work.

MOI关键定爾指标数据库

www.mqi.orgxn

市呈芽冊

				88	IO	
REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION  创新发展	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTURING  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展
		2015	Social Responsibility Report t	'Report preface	2016社会责任报告	/创新发展

INCREASING THE R&D INVESTMENT,

BOOSTING THE RESEARCH ABILITY IMPROVEMENT

加大研发费用投入，助推研发能力提升

公司连续多年坚持以销售收入的3%〜5%投入技术研发，2016年全年投入研发费用达21.58亿元。

For many years, the company has been committed to the r&d of 3 to 5 percent of the sales
revenue, and the total cost of r&d in 2016 is 21.58 billion yuan.

r	本期费用化研发投入（元）  Current R&D Investment Cost (yuan)	1,513,711,834.09	i
(	本期资本化研发投入（元）  Current Capitalized R&D Investment (yuan)	644,599,878.13	
(	研发投入合计（元）  Total R&D Investment (yuan)	2,158,311,712.22	i
f	研发投入资本化的比重（％)  Proportion of Capitalized R&D investment capital	29.87	
	研发投入总额占营业收入比例（％)  Proportion of R%D Investment in operating revenue	4.11	

报告期内，公司新增授权专利数

In the reporting period, the number of new

patents authorized by the company

1754

其中发明授权433件

433 pieces of the invention authorization

实用新型1025件
1025 pieces of utility model

外观设计296件
Appearance design 296

公司共拥有授权专利

In the reporting period, the number of new
patents authorized by the company

8732

其中发明授权712件

712 pieces of the invention authorization

实用新型5404件

5404 pieces of utility model

外观设计2416件
Appearance design 2416

STRONGLY PUSHING THE NEW TECHNOLOGIES
ACHEVEMENT APPLICATION

大力推进新技术成果应用

2016年，公司牢牢把握关键技术研发路线，以客户为导向，强化新技术的成果运用，进一步突出按质、按期出成果的核
心诉求，扎实推进产品开发和研发能力的提升，取得显著成效。

In 2016, JAC has firmly grasped key technical research route. Customers oriented, JAC has strengthened the achievement
application of new technologies, further highlighted the core requirement of delivering the products with quality on time, and actively
promoted the products development and research ability upgrading, all of which have achieved remarkable success.

乘用车技术一一排气系统正向幵发及调音技术

PASSENGER VEHICLE TECHNOLOGY - THE EXHAUST SYSTEM IS BEING DEVELOPED AND TUNED

正向设计

基于仿真分析，设计满足要求的消声结构、缓振结构和吊挂点的位置，试验验证设计方案是
否满足设计标准，这种正向开发流程节约开发成本，缩短开发周期。

In 2016, JAC has firmly grasped key technical research route. Customers oriented, JAC has strengthened
the achievement application of new technologies, further highlighted the core requirement of delivering the
products with quality on time, and actively promoted the products development and research ability
upgrading, all of which have achieved remarkable success.

国内领先

与国内顶尖高校研究院（清华大学-苏州汽车研究院）合作，保证了仿真分析的规范性和开发
流程的严谨性，公司排气系统正向开发设计达到国内同行业领先水平。

With the domestic top university institute (tsinghua university - suzhou automobile research institute)
cooperation, guarantee the standardization and development of simulation analysis process rigor,
company exhaust system is designed to the domestic industry leading level.

仿真分析软件及 核心开发能力	
应用软件	功能
GT-POWER	传递损失 管口矂声
virtual.lab	传递损失
HvperMesh	模态分析 强度分析
STAR-CCM+	流场分布

■ C-：





**-»n*i







穴粧

www.maii.c







		来			IO	
REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION  创新发展	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTURING  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface	201 6社会责任报告	/ 创新发展

商用车技术一i ■ T「uck全生命周期技术

PASSENGER VEHICLE TECHNOLOGY - THE EXHAUST SYSTEM IS BEING DEVELOPED AND TUNED





i _ Truck全生命周期技术对电气平台从技术规划、设计开
发、测试开发、诊断开发、工艺E〇L开发和售后支持开发全过
程进行同步设计、系统匹配和统一开发管控。目前已经完成新
一代重卡8个车型原理整合，建立部分数据库；新一代重卡原理
图及设计规范已经应用到长头车、底盘超越项目、明星产品
等。解决重卡原有的电气集成技术、生产检测设备、售后服务
手段难以满足新一代重卡平台电气电子系统的同步开发问题。 I,

I, Truck technology in whole life cycle of the electric platform from the technical planning, design, development, test development,
diagnosis, EOL, process development, process development and after-sales support synchronous design, system matching and unified
development controls. It has now completed the integration of the new generation of the eight models, and set up a partial database.
The new generation chart and design specifications have been applied to the long head car, the chassis over the project, the star
product and so on. Solve the heavy card original electrical integration technology, production testing equipment, after-sales service
means it is hard to meet a new generation of heavy card platform synchronization development of electrical and electronics system.

新能源汽车技术

NEW ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES

t-_对以石传动系”为核心的、技六复杂的节能能肋汽车产品开发：总结提炼出“迭代研发”开发，.莫型。2009年
-2016年：基于一定数1的产品实践b示范运行，通过技六突破b平台优化，不断推出新一吒产品，以推动产S与占场的成
熟，M终实现产业化。

Aiming at the development of "diamond drive" as the core, the technology complex energy saving and new-energy car
product development, the "iterative development" development model is summarized. In 2009-2009, based on practice and
demonstration run a certain number of products, through the technological breakthroughs and platform optimization, roll out a new
generation of products, to promote the product with the maturity of the market, finally realizes the industrialization.

迭代变量初始值	迭代关系式

The initial value of the iteration variable	The iterative equation

系统集成
先出车

.^vstem integration
The car first

收敛

convergence

产品成熟
市场成熟
Mature products
The market is mature

战略定位

坚持创新驱动,掌握核心技术，持续构筑领先的纯电诹动技术优势，重点发is纯电动和插电式混合动力两大技六平台。

Insist on innovation drive, to master the core technology, continue to build a leading pure electric drive technology advantage,
focus on developing pure electric and plug-in hybrid technology platform.

		来	^00-		IO	
REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION  创新发展	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTURING  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface 2016社会责任报告	/ 创新发展

突破电动车产品的九大核心及关键技术，推动产品成熟-----------------------—-----

坚持创新驱动，掌捉核心技术,持续构筑领先的纯电诹动技术优势，重点发展纯动和插电式混合动力两大技术平台。

Insist on innovation drive, to master the core technology, continue to build a leading pure electric drive technology advantage,
focus on developing pure electric and plug-in hybrid technology platform.

续驶里程
安全…

吞叩..

低温性能
快速充电

EMC

....-..."NVH

__智能化
___可靠性控制
©父文多动力絹合

变速箱技术--平台化双离合器自动变速箱（DCT)产品幵发--------------------------

江淮汽车自2010年开始，致力于自主研发一款更为舒适、动感、安全驾乘体验的双离合器自动变速箱产品。截止2016年
底已经完成近3万台的生产制造及销售，应用于江淮瑞风S5、瑞风A60等车型。该产品在2016年获得安徽省科技进步奖一等
奖、中国机械工业科学技术奖三等奖、十二五机械工业科技创新奖优秀科技成果等诸多重要奖项。

Since the beginning of 2010, jianghuai auto has
been working on developing a more comfortable,
dynamic, safe driving experience with a dual clutch
automatic gearbox. As of the end of 2016, nearly 30,
000 manufacturing and sales have been completed,
with the use of models such as jianghuai 「uifeng S5
and「uifeng A60. The product won the first prize in
science and technology progress prize in anhui
province in 2016, the third prize of the China
machinery industry science and technology prize,
five-year machinery industry science and technology
innovation award of outstanding scientific and
technological achievements, and many other
important awards.

混动DCT产品

Longitudinal
DCT product

DCT变形产品

Longitudinal
DCT product

电子技术

NEW ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES

车道偏离报警系统

在车辆偏离车道后发岀报s,为％:驶s提供更多的反应时间，车道偏离报s系统可识別车辆何时偏离车道，并
在检测到车辆发生无意iH偏离车道时，通过声光报3提醒驾驶员。

After the vehicle veering off alarm, provide mo「e reaction time fo「drivers, lane departure warning system can
identify the vehicle when the track, and unconsciously deviates from the driveway in detect the vehicle, by sound and
light alarm to remind the driver.

2	智能驾驶汽车

通过对转向、制动、油门系统的改制，实现对车辆平台的横纵向主动控制；采用差分定位及惯性导航技术实
现厘米级高精度定姿定位；通过高精度地图系统完成全局路径规划、相对定位等功能；依靠多传感器感知系统完成
动静态障碍物目标检测识别；采用安全可靠的决策算法实现了主动避障等局部路径规划功能。

自动驾驶系统具备了在人车混行路段30km/h、在快速公路上50km/h自动驾驶能力，达到了SAE3级水平。（有
条件自动驾驶）

Through the modification of the steering, braking and
throttle system, the horizontal vertical control of the
vehicle platform is realized. Adopting the difference
positioning and inertial navigation technology to achieve
the high precision fixed position position of the
centimeter-level. The function of global path planning,
relative positioning, etc. Relying on multi-sensor sensing
system to complete the detection and identification of
static obstacle targets; A safe and reliable decision-
making algorithm is adopted to implement the local path
planning functions such as active avoidance.

The autopilot system has a capacity of 30km/h on a
hybrid road and 50km/h on the highway to the SAE3 level.

MDI关键定量指标数据库

REPORT PREFACE

报告前言

SYSTEM SECURITY

体系保障

INDEPENDENT INNOVATION

创新发展

PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE

协调发展

PEOPLE-ORIENTED

绿色发展

GREEN MANUFACTURING

开放发展

LEADING QUALITY

共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface

2016社会-3!任报告/创新发展

工艺技术

NEW ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES

充液鹽

该工艺M由江淮汽车牵头，眹合科研院所，共R承接
工信部主导的“A档数控机床与基础制造戈缶"0家科
技重大专项课题,，计对国产高档汽车铝合金批¥化杧密成
形，自主开发50000KN轿车车身铝合金渲2件大吨位充液
成形iL成单元，以解决铝合金成形性差、衷向易划伤、成
品宇低等难题，H.单件减重可达50%以上，W补0内铝台
金汽车覆盖件充液成形技术b装&的卒白.，

This process is led by jianghuai automobile, joint
scientific research institutes, jointly undertake mi it
dominated "high-end CNC machine tools and basic
manufacturing equipment" national science and technology
major projects. For domestic mass precision forming, high-
grade aluminum alloy developed aluminium alloy 50000 kn
car body covering parts of large tonnage of liquid forming
integrated unit, in order to solve poor formability, easy
scratches on the surface of aluminum alloy, low yield, and
single weight can reach more than 50%, to fill the domestic
aluminum alloy automotive covering parts of liquid forming
technology and equipment of the blank.

^ 打印技术
应用研究

利用快速成型技术的离散/堆积成形原理，能够快速、
柔性、准确的制造内腔及表面复杂的铸型、模具。2016年
已完成第二轮样件试制，将试制周期由90天降低到20天，
且试制成本由1万件/件降低到6000元/件。

This process is led by jianghuai automobile, joint
scientific research institutes, jointly undertake mi it
dominated "high-end CNC machine tools and basic
manufacturing equipment" national science and technology
major projects. For domestic mass precision forming, high-
grade aluminum alloy developed aluminium alloy 50000 kn
car body covering parts of large tonnage of liquid forming
integrated unit, in order to solve poor formability, easy
scratches on the surface of aluminum alloy, low yield, and
single weight can reach more than 50%, to fill the domestic
aluminum alloy automotive covering parts of liquid forming
technology and equipment of the blank.

TRAINING OF TECHNICAL PERSONNEL

技术人才培养

公司fe心策部暑落实入才、技X人才..新知识员工..技能入才等各类入才的培养工诈，枳极提升技太类S工理
论水平和实践能力，为新技穴的幵发和人才队$建设提供有力保漳3

Company meticulously, the deployment of the implementation of the management personnel, technical personnel, the new
knowledge staff, skills, talents and so on all kinds of talent cultivation work, actively promote technical staff theoretical level and
practical ability, to the development of new technology and talent team construction to provide powerful guarantee.

技术管理类人才培养

TECHNICAL MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL TRAINING

201G年ffl绕底&S架..汽车安全及新能源汽车发划，开展七躬11干部大:j4S''系列培训，共计4b0入参加：

In 2016, the development plan for chassis suspension, auto safety and new energy vehicles will be carried out in a series of
training of the seven "cadre hall" series, which will be attended by 450 people.

技术骨干培养

TECHNICAL MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL TRAINING

通过举办供应商产品展示会，开展内外部
技术交流；围绕“节油、环保、智能化”进行
车展汇报评比，了解市场动态；创新搭建“专
家型实验室”和“专家工作室”，探索培养关
■领域技骨干新&式„

2016年开展《技术人员基础能力提升》、

《汽车开发项目管理}等36配专项运训等买战

Conduct internal and external technical communication through exhibitions of
suppliers' products; To report the performance of the auto show around "oil
saving, environmental protection and intelligence" to understand the market
dynamics; We will create "expert laboratories” and "expert workshops” to explore
new models for key areas of technology.

In 2016, we will carry out special training in the field of technical personnel
training such as "technical personnel base ability promotion", "car development
project management" and so on.

化的技术类员工专项培训。

MOII关键定爾指标数据库

曾 iit "ff" 逆。〔 贸



REPORT PREFACE

报告前言

SYSTEM SECURITY	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE

体系保障	创新发展	协调发展

PEOPLE-ORIENTED

绿色发展

GREEN MANUFACTURING

开放发展

LEADING QUALITY

共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface

2016社会贾任振告i创新发展

开K入职培训丄作，培训涅程包括公司规章制度及员工日常行为规范、安全教育、产品1艺及规划等十二门研发人S必
备知通过师彳;旭的方法，技术类骨干及专家把公司正确的理念、方法、技能传达给新知识员工。

Work to carry out the orientation and training courses include company rules and regulations and staff daily behavior standards,
safety education, product process and planning and so on ten second r&d personnel essential knowledge, by the method of division
DaiTu technical backbone and experts put the company the right idea, methods and skills to the new knowledge workers.

技能类员工培训

NEW KNOWLEDGE WORKER CULTURE

幵屐入段训工作，培训课程包括公3度及S工日常行为规范、安
全教芎、产品1艺及规划等十二HR发入员必艺知此M过徒的方法：技
大类骨干及专家杷公司正确的理念..方法..技能传达绉新知;HS工：

Work to carry out the orientation and training courses include company rules and
regulations and staff daily behavior standards, safety education, product process and
planning and so on ten second r&d personnel essential knowledge, by the method of
division DaiTu technical backbone and experts put the company the right idea,
methods and skills to the new knowledge workers.

TRAINING OF TECHNICAL PERSONNEL

获得奖项

2016年度，获得的科技奖励及产品荣誉情况

TECHNICAL MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL TRAINING

中国汽车工业科技进步奖	15L TGDI汽油发动机产品开发 1.5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development	江淮中重卡盘式前桥系列产品开发  1.5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development
中国机械工业科学技术奖	商用车CAN网络平台开发 1.5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development	HFC DTF630双离合自动变速器产品开发 1.5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development
安徽省科技进步奖	HFC DTF630双离合自动变速器产品开发 1-5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development	HFC1121P61K1E1型系列载货汽车产品开发 1.5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development
中国物流与采购联合会 科技进步奖	江淮HFC1161P系列中型载货车开发  1.5	L TGDI gasoline engine product development  江淮帅铃宽体“黄金传动系”系列载货汽车开发  1.5	L TGDI gasoline engine product development	HFC1036系列轻型载货汽车开发  1.5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development
中国质量评价协会 科技创新奖	H F C1037系列车型多用途货车产品开发 1.5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development	江淮4 x 2系列中型载货车开发 1.5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development
	江淮“威司达"系列中型载货车开发  1.5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development	汽车_后诊断系统平台  1.5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development
十二五机械工业科技创新奖	HFC DTF630双离合自动变速器产品开发 1.5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development	
安徽省机械工业科学技术奖	江淮N721系列轻卡产品开发  1.5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development	蒙城车厢粉末涂装新技/<应用  1.5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development
	江淮重型天然气牵引车系列产品开发  1.5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development	汽车制动鼓专用铸造生产线  1.5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development
	1.5TGDI缸内直喷汽油发动机生产线  1.5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development	发动机关键零部件耦合技术应用及  材料温变特性数据库建设  1-5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development
	江淮系列运动型乘用车产品标准研制  1.5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development	H FC7000AEV型纯电动轿车产品标准项目 1-5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development

					ID	
REPORT PREFACE	SYSTEM SECURITY	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE	PEOPLE-ORIENTED	GREEN MANUFACTURING	LEADING QUALITY
报告前言	体系保障	创新发展	协调发展	绿色发展	开放发展	共享发展
		2015	Social Responsibility Report /	1 Report preface	2016社会责任报告	/创新发展

安徽省新产品

HFC7151CTV 轿车

1.5	L TGDI gasoline engine product development

H FC1041P73K1C3V系列轻型载货汽车

1.5	L TGDI gasoline engine product development

2.0T+纵置国V配瑞风M5 6MT发动机
(HFC4GA3-4D)

1.5	L TGDI gasoline engine product development

HFC1311 P1K系列8 x 2重型载货汽车

1.5	L TGDI gasoline engine product development

HFC4252P13K系列重型牵引汽车

1.5	L TGDI gasoline engine product development

HFC1053P51K系列轻型载货汽车

1.5	L TGDI gasoline engine product development

HFC1061右舵系列轻卡

1.5	L TGDI gasoline engine product development

2.8L国V柴油发动机（HFC4DA1-2D)

15 L TGDI gasoline engine product development

HFC4251P1K系列重型牵引汽车

1-5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development

HFC6685Y1F型客车底盘

1.5	L TGDI gasoline engine product development

截止2016年，承担的重大在研科技项目情况

TECHNICAL MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL TRAINING

国家科技支撑计划

江淮高性能小型纯电动轿车开发

15 L TGDI gasoline engine product development

国家智能制造装备发展专项

1.5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development

国家科技重大专项

汽车大型铝合金覆盖件充液成形技术与装备

1.5 L TGDI gasoline engine product development

国家重点产业振兴与技术改造专项

国际科技合作专项

年产10万台2.0CTI高性能柴油发动机项目

1.5	L TGDI gasoline engine product development

电动汽车轻量化及动力传动系统关键技术合作研究

1.5	L TGDI gasoline engine product development

TRAINING OF TECHNICAL PERSONNEL

诚信经营做守法合规的企业公民

公司始终坚持依法治企\诚信自律的念，在日常生产经S活动中恪守国家，去律法规，践
行诚z言经营、M7企业自律，公平竞争，按草纳税，完善法律WP佥管控，持续创趼讲位。

Company always adhere to the governance in accordance with the enterprise, integrity，the
concept of self-discipline in daily production and business operation activities abide by state
laws and regulations and practice of the good faith management, shelly enterprise self-
discipline, fair competition, pay taxes by the chapter, perfect the legal risk control, continue to
ca「「y forward innovation.

2016年公司缴纳税费
Companies pay taxes in 2016

22.07

寸法合规体系建设 Technica丨 management personnel training

健全公司治理结构，强化责任部门与篮督机制建设，We will improve the structure of corporate governance, strengthen the
各责任咅P门之间相互酉己合，建立耳关合执法机制。	construction of responsible departments and oversight mechanisms, and

cooperate with each other to establish a joint law enforcement mechanism.

3戋付诚{目经宫 Technical management personnel training

The company puts forward the four service commitments of initiative,
profession, integrity and satisfaction, strictly abide by the business ethics and
contract spirit, and safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of interested
parties. On October 31, 2016, the company was identified as "the integrity
demonstration enterprise of anhui province in 2015".

公司提出主动、专业、诚信、满意四大服务承诺，严
格遵守商业伦理与契约精神，维护利益相关方的合法
权益。2016年10月31日，公司被认定为为
“2015年度安徽省诚信示范企业，，。

石厉行企业自律 Technical management personnel training

公司遵守竞争的相关法律法规，恪守公平竞争规则，
不诋毁、不贬低竞争对手，不使用不正当的手段谋求
竞争优势地位，积极参与构建行业合作平台。

Companies comply with the competition of the related laws and regulations,
abide by rules of fair competition, not to denigrate, do not belittle competitors,
do not use improper means to seek competitive advantage position, take an
active part in building industry cooperation platform.

元善法律风险管控 Technical management personnel training

公司秉承“融入决策、融入管理、融入文化，，的法律
理念，建立以“事前防范、事中控制和事后补救”为
核心的法律风险防范系统，不断完善公司内部管理制
度，提升全员的法律意识。

Companies comply with the competition of the related laws and regulations,
abide by rules of fair competition, not to denigrate, do not belittle competitors,
do not use improper means to seek competitive advantage position, take an
active part in building industry cooperation platform.

推进创新进位 Technical management personnel training

We will continue to improve the management of intellectual property rights in
enterprises by adhering to the principle of encouraging creation, effective use,
protection of the law and scientific management. At the same time, the
company fully respects the intellectual property of other people, carries out
comprehensive intellectual property research and early warning work on key
research and development projects, and avoids the occurrence of torts. In
2016, the company passed the first batch of state-level intellectual property
demonstration enterprises.

MOI关键定爾指标数据库

坚持以激励创造、有效运用、依法保护、科学管理为
方针，着力完善企业知识产权管理。同时公司充分尊
重他人的知识产权，对重点研发项目开展全面的知识
产权调研与预警工作，避免侵权行为的发生。
2016年，公司顺利通过第一批国家级知识产权示范企
业的复核。

	4	来	劣〇三		IO	
REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION  创新发展	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTURING  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface	201 6社会责任报告	/ 创新发展

TRAINING OF TECHNICAL PERSONNEL

风险防控

公司实现iisa7分公司及i4控没子公司内控体系的全屬盖，迸一步推迸全面风迨eaL a过内部控制的s我评价、专项芾计
和外部舌计，多il次、全方z立审视企业管理屮存在的fu」；S5J1l薄弱环节：提升风迨防控能力,，按照内部控制的五大要素和五大原
则，宂S以控制风游丨」防范弄弊为中心..基于风验为4?向的内部控制体系。

公司通过风迨g理报吿、专项宙计报告和坫训会议等多方式培育风险管理文化，权j立正确的风险管理理念，提AS工的风
险防控意识。

公司制定《公司重要E大经营风迨/言息決报制度》，建立经营风迨/言息传沟通机制：将发现!的重要风险及时预警和汇
报，提出和藩买风迨sa策藤II实旌方案：报告K内，公;I)内部控制没有发现II大缺内部控制设计合浬..执行有交文：

The company realizes the full coverage of the internal control system of the group holding company and its controlling
subsidiary, and further promotes the comprehensive risk management. Through the internal control self assessment, special audit
and external audit, multi-level and comprehensive look at the problems existing in the enterprise management and weak links,
improve risk control ability. According to the five elements and five principles of internal control, the internal control system based
on risk management and risk management based on risk management is improved.

Company through the risk management report, special audit report and training meetings and so on a variety of ways to foster
risk management culture, set up the correct co门cept of risk management, improve the staffs consciousness of risk prevention and
control.

Company to establish the important letters major operational risk information system, set up the mechanism of management
risk information transmission and communication, will find significant risk early warning and reporting in time, put forward and carry
out the risk management strategy and implementation plan. During the reporting period, the internal control of the company has not
found any significant defects, and the internal control design is reasonable and effective.

TRAINING OF TECHNICAL PERSONNEL

廉洁从业

公司在省委和省国资委党委的坚强领导下，始终把全面从严治党摆在突出位置，深入推进作风建设。全面贯彻落实中央八项
规定精神，深刻领会《JAC宪章》对廉洁从业的纲领性要求，完善惩治和预防腐败体系。

Under the strong leadership of the provincial party committee and the party committee of the provincial sasac, the company
has always put the party in a prominent position and promoted the construction of style. We will fully implement the spirit of the
eight central government regulations, fully appreciate the provisions of the JAC charter on the principles of integrity, and improve
the system of punishing and preventing corruption.



2016年，结合廉洁风险防控体系实际运行情况，公司组
织开展了廉洁风险防控体系修订工作，聚焦高风险岗位轮岗、
重点领域_几制建设和生产经营工作流程議。

In 2016, according to the real running situation of
integrity risk prevention and control system, the company
organized the integrity risk prevention and control system,
focus on high-risk job rotations, and key areas to control
mechanism construction and improve the production and
business operation work process.

I468

个

经过修订形成的《廉洁从业高风险庳》共识别输出A类风险点
In the revised form of "the high risk bank of probity" not to
output A class A risk point

824x 384

个

涉及岗位	《廉洁风险防控体系手册》共识别输出高风_呈

Involved in post The "clean risk control system handbook"
consensus does not output high-risk processes

协调发展

筑建和谐共赢的大协同体

SYSTEM GUARANTEE

Gomprehensively implementing social
responsibility management

公司紧紧围绕“十三五”发展战略，正确处理好与客户、员工、经销商和供应商等相关方的关系，积极提升经销商满意
度和客户满意度，不断改善员工工作环境，与供应商协同合作，促进公司协调、健康、稳健发展。

Company closely around the "much starker choices-and graver consequences-in" development strategy, properly handle
with the customers, employees, distributors and suppliers such as the relationship between the parties, actively promote the dealer
satisfaction and customer satisfaction, improve employee work environment, cooperate with the supplier, to promote coordinated,
healthy and steady development of the company.

STRONGLY PUSHING THE NEW TECHNOLOGIES
ACHIEVEMENT APPLICATION

公司完善营销管理制度，注重消费者知情权管理，积极构建健康、公平、透明的营销环境，同时严格管理消费者的个人
信息，杜绝一切商业非法行为的发生。

Company to perfect the marketing management system, pay attention to consumers' right to know the management, actively
build a healthy, fair, transparent, marketing environment, strict management of consumer personal information at the same time,
put an end to all business of illegal behavior occurs.

D所有车型涉及新品上市、配置变更和价格变动等第一时间在官网更新，确保消费者了解产品最新状态;

All models will be updated on the website to ensure that consumers understand the latest status of the
product, including new product listings, configuration changes and price changes.

H杜绝虚假宣传，确保促销信息准确无误送达消费者；

Put an end to false propaganda and ensure that the promotion information is delivered accurately to
consumers;

H完善和规范购车、订车合同格式，对购车过程中承诺客户的事项必须在合同上注明；

To improve and standardize the format of car purchase and contract, and to make the commitment to the
customer in the process of purchasing a car.

Q规范商谈和报价过程，通过统一的商谈报价单，让客户在购车时明确所有购车相关费用；

To standardize the negotiation and quotation process, and to make sure that all the relevant expenses of
the car purchase will be made by the customer in the purchase.

以客户为导向落实敬客经营

建立多渠道的客户沟通提醒。

Establish multi-channel customer communication alerts.

		"S'			IO	
REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION  创新发展	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTURING  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface	2016社会责任报告	/	协调发展

顾客满意度调查工作

PASSENGER VEHICLE TECHNOLOGY-THE EXHAUST SYSTEM IS BEING DEVELOPED AND TUNED

2016年公司A度重视终端客户的满意座水平，继续强
化客户满5度的调W与应用工作，邀®行业知名_?g三方咨
卯公司各业务终端S户的满葸度水平进打全面监测，普重
在产品力、营诮力和品牌力等方面优化了调查内容。

In 2016, the company attaches great importance to the
end customer satisfaction level, continue to strengthen the
research and application of customer satisfaction, invited the
well-known third-party consulting company each business
terminal customer satisfaction level to conduct a
comprehensive monitoring, emphasis on product, marketing
and brand forces aspects of optimizing the investigation
content.

营销执行力  Marketing executive force	类型  Type	2015年得分 In 2015, scoring	2016年得分 In 2015, scoring
轻卡	SSI	912	924
Light trucks	CSI	830	874
皮卡	SSI	881	919
Light trucks	CSI	785	849
重卡	SSI	892	907
Light trucks	CSI	829	868
乘用车	SSI	911	936
Light trucks	CSI	880	890
星锐	SSI	926	937
Light trucks	CSI	863	868

乘用车

Powertrain

多层次满意度测评，通过网络调查平台、店端服务评价器调查、第三方满意度抽样调查等形
式，对不满意因子全面识别，持续提升。全国使用满意度在线评价器店数共计475家，使用率达
到95.2%，参与评价客户超过180万，满意率达到99.97%，全年共计500次不满意评价，

100%下发工单跟踪闭环。

Multi-level satisfaction assessment, through the network platform, shop backend service
evaluation survey sampling, third party satisfaction survey forms, such as to not satisfied factors
comprehensive identification, continued ascension. National use satisfaction online store for a total of
475, utilization rate of 95.2%, to participate in the evaluation of more than 1.8 million customers,
satisfaction rate of 99.97%, the year a total of 500 times is not satisfied with the evaluation, 100%
issued order tracking loop.

客户满意度调查（CSI)走势

910

900

890

880

870

860

2015Q1	2015Q2	2015Q3	2015Q4	2016Q1	2016Q2	2016Q3

轻型商用车
Powertrain

全面切换执行新版DMS系统，依据系统规范客户资源管理工作，重点管控客户档案真实性及
准确性，2016年累计抽查客户档案154814条，客户档案准确率98.32%。开展“诚信经营，微
笑销售”主题活动，在终端全面开展氛围营造工作，进一步提升顾客满意度的意识。

Multi-level satisfaction assessment, through the network platform, shop backend service
evaluation survey sampling, third party satisfaction survey forms, such as to not satisfied factors
comprehensive identification, continued ascension. National use satisfaction online store for a total of
475, utilization rate of 95.2%, to participate in the evaluation of more than 1.8 million customers,
satisfaction rate of 99.97%, the year a total of 500 times is not satisfied with the evaluation, 100%
issued order tracking loop.

I548I4

2〇16年累计油查客户档案
In 2016, we will check the
profile of our clients

9832%

客户档案准确率
Customer profile accuracy

重型商用车
Powertrain

MOI

针对顾客满意度中的薄弱环节，进行原因分析，制定专项整改计划，按时间节点推进。组织
倾听顾客满意度调查录音，切身感受顾客的想法，提升顾客满意度的意识。

In view of the weak link in customer satisfaction, the reason analysis is made, the special
improvement plan is developed, and the time node is pushed forward. The organization listens to the
customer satisfaction survey record, feels the customer's thoughts, and raises the awareness of
customer satisfaction.

					IO	
REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION  创新发展	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTURING  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface	2016社会责任报告	/	协调发展

典型用户走进江淮

THE TYPICAL USER WALKS INTO JIANGHUAI

2016牛公司!細开严了 "共户进江淮■主题活动，共汁娜名场公司级座淡会，遒适各车型娜立窖户代衷走进
JAC,与公司面对面父^。全年共有2<3人次公司三级、Z9级干邹在呼叫中心值[' 共铪出干部值心得总结2/3份，四
级十部《400<3班干部月K总紐告》10份听軎户的芦亩，充分听取用户在购车、使用及维，保*过构中的茂见g建
议，并对提出的H题进行追踪稽核。

In 2016 the company continue to
conduct the "typical customer into
jianghuai" theme activities, a total of eight
organization corporate level symposium,
invited 120 various models to client
representatives into the JAC, face to face
to communicate with the company.
Throughout the yea「a total of 243 the
company level 3 and level 4 cadres on
duty in the call center, total output 243
cadres on duty experience summary, 4
class cadres MOO cadres on duty monthly
summary report" 10. Listen to the
customer's voice, fully listen to the user's
opinions and Suggestions in the process
of C3「purchase, use and maintenance,
and follow the audit of the questions
raised.

海外市场害后服务

THE TYPICAL USER WALKS INTO JIANGHUAI

公3M过对国际市场十年服努过稃的和实践，逐渐凝聚岀国际ib场服务品牌核心要素，并以此为契机，形成了国际
市场特有的“全程呵护，专业服努"的服务迚念，持续为顾客提供优质服务，提升客户满意度。

Company based on the international market ten years service process of exploration and practice, gradually condense out of
the international market service brand core elements, and take this opportunity to form the characteristic of the international market
"full care, professional service" service concept, continue to provide customers with quality service, improve customer satisfaction.

验收重点市场星级服务网络
Check out key market star
service network

开展大型客户关怀服务活动
Check out key market star
service network

策划实施区域规模服务培训
Check out key market star
service network

			舞		IO	
REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION  创新发展	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTURING  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface	2016社会责任报告	/	协调发展

STRONGLY PUSHING THE NEW TECHNOLOGIES
ACHIEVEMENT APPLICATION

以人为本让员工在工作中活出生命的意义

“关爰员工”作为JAC的文化基石之一，JAC始终认为：每一位爰岗敬业的员工
都是JAC发展的基石，是JAC最宝贵的财富。员工的成长、进步、幸福是企业技术进
步、产品优良、服务一流的基础。企业是员工展示才能、贡献社会、成就自我的平
台，员工发展与企业发展紧密联系。

As one of the cornerstones of the JAC culture, the JAC believes that every
dedicated employee is the cornerstone of JAC's development and is the most valuable
asset to the JAC. Employee's growth, progress and happiness are the foundation of
enterprise's technical progress, excellent products and excellent service. The enterprise
is a platform for employees to display talents, contribute to society and achieve self-
development, and the development of staff is closely related to the development of
ente「p「ises.

规范公司用工管理，维护员工合法权益

STANDARDIZE THE MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY AND
SAFEGUARD THE LAWFUL RIGHTS AND INTERESTS OF EMPLOYEES

2016年，根据公司长期发展战略，继续推进“总量控制，结构优化”专项工作，人员总量控制总体有效。

在员工招聘方面，按照人员需求状况开展校园招聘和社会招聘工作，增补所需人才，并对所有新入职员工统一规范管
理，严格按照制度和流程办理入职、社保备案等手续。

在员工管理方面，公司认真遵守和落实国家法律法规，依法合规为员工交纳养老、医疗、工伤、生育和失业保险等社会
保险及住房公积金，让员工有计划的享受带薪年休假，维护所有员工产假、护理假、探亲假等各类假期权益；同时严格按照
劳动法律法规和公司规章制度，实施劳动合同到期续签工作，从制度上保障员工的合法权益，促逬企业凝聚力的提升。

In 2016, according to the long-term development strategy of the company, we will continue to promote the special wo「k of
"total volume control, structural optimization", and total personnel control will be effective.

In terms of hiring, according to the demand to carry out the campus recruitment and social recruitment, supplemented the
required talents, and to all the new「ec「uits unified, standardized management, in strict accordance with the system and process
orientation,socialsecu「ityfo「the「eco「dformalities-

In staff management, the company carefully observe and carry out the national laws and regulations, in accordance with the
law of compliance for the employees pay provide for the aged, medical treatment, inductrial injury, birth and unemployment
insurance and other social insurance and housing accumulation fund, and let the staff in a planned way to enjoy annual vacation
with pay, maintain all staff maternity leave, nursing leave, home leave, etc all kinds of holiday rights; At the same time in strict
accordance with the labor laws, regulations and company rules and regulations, implementation of the labor contract renewal work,
from the institutional safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of employees, promote enterprise cohesion.

招聘 RECRUITMENT

4I0

校园招聘

(本科及以上学历）
Campus「ec「uitment
(bachelor degree or above)

44

社会招聘
(成熟人才引进）

Campus「ec「uitment
(Introduction of mature talents )

I4I5

操作类招聘
(城合工）

Action class recruitment
(City (work))

社会保险RECRUITMENT

100%	r i /亿元  L t One hundred J million yuan	1 GO元  K One hundred million yuan		■ 元  k One hundred 蜃 】million yuan
覆盖率为 Coverage for	共缴纳 Coverage for	单位缴纳 Coverage for		个人缴纳 Coverage for
带薪年假RECRUITMENT		公积金 RECRUITMENT		
100%		12%		4 亿元 /I II# One hundred million yuan
休假率（已休人数/应休人数） Coverage for		缴费比例 Coverage for		共缴纳 Coverage for
劳动合同续签RECRUITMENT				
5363	5331	2		30
劳动合同到期 Coverage for	劳动合同续签 Coverage for	单位主动淘汰 Coverage for		个人提出终止 Coverage for

MDI关键定置指标数据库

SYSTEM SECURITY	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE

体系保障	创新发展	协调发展

PEOPLE-ORIENTED

绿色发展

GREEN MANUFACTURING

开放发展

LEADING QUALITY

共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface

2016社会责任报告/协调发展

重视员工成长增强员工归属

STANDARDIZE THE MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY AND
SAFEGUARD THE LAWFUL RIGHTS AND INTERESTS OF EMPLOYEES

公司立足发展战略需要，不断芫善员工成长体系，建立了以素质测评为基础，以见习培养、主动成长（成长路径、内部
竞聘、自学成长）为手段，自主择岗、合理变岗为支撑的员工职业生涯管理体系，助力员工不断提升自我，实现人力资源合
理配置。同时，公司积极探索基于岗位实践的人才培养模式，开展了经营管理后备人才、车间主任后备、高技能人才、质量
专家队伍等专项人才培养，为公司关键人才储备提供了战略支撑。

Company based on development strategy needs, and constantly improve the staff growth system, established on the basis of
quality assessment, to practice training, active growth, growth path, the internal competition, self-study growth as the means,
reasonable independently choose the duty, duty to support employees' career management system, boost employees
continuously improve yourself, realize the rational allocation of human resources. At the same time, the company actively explore
the training mode based on post practice, carry out the management reserve reserve talented person, the workshop director,
high-skilled talents, quality expert team of special talents, key talent reserves provide strategic support to the company.

员工培训工作  RECRUITMENT	5I64	i74r ^
	2016年开展培训活动	培训经费
	Action class recruitment	Action class recruitment

专项培训

4775欠61次

参培人次达

Action class recruitment

2016年各类专项培训共计
Action class recruitment

■



非学历送培：2016年共计组织员工送培96批次、657人次

自学奖励：2016年共计发放员工自学奖励金额333380元，涉及员工171人，其中本科148人，硕士研究生23人

员工成长路径

人次

II272

2016年考试人次共计

其中操作类员工3290人次，专业类1335人次、技术类4228人
次、市场类2419人次

Among them, there were 3,290 operators, 1,335
professional classes, 4228 technical class and 2419 market
class

■	|H

■fTfiira

员工评聘工作：2016年共计2136人通过成长路径评聘成长

社会职称申报：2016f共计3人获得正高级工程师资格，

41人获得高级工程师资格，321人获得工程师资格

公司内部招聘：2016年公司层面共组织开展了 16次内部招聘，完成的招聘岗位共需求
400人，录取306人。

关键人才培养	高技能人才培养：共有技能大师工作室27个

六西格玛人才培养：共有黑带大师工作室6个

木曰

HONOR

人才工作先进单位
The talented person works
advanced unit

34

人才工作先进个人
The talented person works
advanced unit

34

人

人才工作先进干部典范
The talented person works
advanced unit

87

人

传帮带师傅典范

The talented person works

advanced unit

86

人

岗位成长员工典范
The talented person works
advanced unit

Cl/

4 匕 jltir in* iHlT

天涯疋尘f日称致ra库

^	"S" X 货



SYSTEM SECURITY	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE

体系保障	创新发展	协调发展

PEOPLE-ORIENTED

绿色发展

GREEN MANUFACTURING

开放发展

LEADING QUALITY

共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface

2016社会责任报告/ 协调发展

%

国务院特殊津贴

Special subsidies for
the state council

周福庚同志	盛保柱同志

Comrade	Comrade

zhou fugung	zhou fugung

LfJ

2016安徽省引才

工作先进单位

Anhui province is a leading
unit in the work of 2016

7	\

省属企业第二批

538

“英才工程”

It is the second batch of
538 talents in the
enterprise

\____________Z

领军人才	高端人才

Top talent	Top talent

叶天汉同志

Comrade
zhou fugung

汪中传同志

Comrade
zhou fugung

李卫华同志

Comrade
zhou fugung

罗世成同志

Comrade
zhou fugung

拔尖人才

Top talent



焦东风同志

Comrade
zhou fugung

王宜海同志	汪清同志

Comrade	Comrade

zhou fugung	zhou fugung

鹿伟同志	黄环国同志

Comrade	Comrade

zhou fugung	zhou fugung

卢强同志	韦文胜同志

Comrade	Comrade

zhou fugung	zhou fugung

2016年安徽省技能大奖

Special subsidies for the state council

朱征兵同志

Comrade
zhou fugung

安徽省技术能手

Special subsidies for the
state council

安徽省级技能大师工作室

Anhui provincial skill master studio

夏明立同志

Comrade
zhou fugung

张晓庚同志	程韬同志

Comrade	Comrade

zhou fugung	zhou fugung

倾听员工心声提升员工满意度

STANDARDIZE THE MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY AND
SAFEGUARD THE LAWFUL RIGHTS AND INTERESTS OF EMPLOYEES

公司注m多种渠道倾听s工心声，通过职工代表大*、领导接待日、员工座谈会、总经理信箱和oa留言板等沟通柒道,
忠方设,去解决员工最关心、M点接、M现实的问题，认H对待并及时采纳员工的合化建议。

Company focus on a variety of channels to listen to employees, through congresses of workers and staff, leading Open Day,
staff symposium, mailbox and OA message board, general manager of communication channels, such as trying to solve the staff
care about most, the most direct, the most realistic problem, seriously and timely adopt staff rationalization proposal.

公司注重员工敬业度、员工满意度管理工作，每年定期组织公司级员工敬业度、员工满意度调查工作，并以员工
敬业度、员工满意度管理工作为抓手，从企业和个人两个方面实施有效改进，不断提升全体员工的职业化素养，增强
企业的整体竞争优势。

Companies pay attention to employee engagement, employee satisfaction management, every year regularly
organize corporate level employee engagement, employee satisfaction survey work, and work with employee
engagement, employee satisfaction management for the gripper, from two aspects of enterprises and individuals
effectively improved, and to improve the staffs professional quality, the enhancement enterprise's overall competitive
advantage.

80.4%	80.5%

员工满意率	员工敬业率	I	领导接待日活动

Employee engagement rate	Employee engagement rate	I	Lead the reception day activities

					ID	
REPORT PREFACE	SYSTEM SECURITY	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE	PEOPLE-ORIENTED	GREEN MANUFACTURING	LEADING QUALITY
报告前言	体系保障	创新发展	协调发展	绿色发展	开放发展	共享发展
		2015	Social Responsibility Report /	1 Report preface	2016社会责任报告	/协调发展

注重人文关爰营造和谐温馨氛围

STANDARDIZE THE MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY AND
SAFEGUARD THE LAWFUL RIGHTS AND INTERESTS OF EMPLOYEES

公视员工码业安全、轵业低设与心理梃S:不新增加员丄安全教育坫训，主动危猃iS及有害y乍业点，提升
S工安全SiH和技能：保证5?保用品及时发放_位。建立了入段■>在职、离段的休检体系，鋩立永久4的屯子化低,A休检档
案，1r对休检结旲制定个性化的改善方案，保»员丄的身心健S:

Company always attaches great importance to the employees' occupational safety, occupational health and mental health,
increasing employee safety education training, take the initiative to identify hazards and harmful operating point, improve employee
safety awareness and skills, ensure labor insurance supplies distribution in place in time. Established and orientation, on-the-job
check-up system, build up the permanent electronic health record, aiming at the improvement of the physical examination results
for personalized solutions, security staffs physical and mental health.

公司尊重和关心特殊群体，广泛开展关爰女性员工、关爰
离退休员工、困难员工帮扶等暖心工程，将对员工的关怀落到
实处。

Companies to「espect and ca「e about special group and
extensive care fo「women, love for the retired employees, wa「m
heart engineering, such as difficult staff support to the staff
concern.

特色+昌尹j	免ST餐、交通®:车、购房补贴、生B卡i礼物）、鱼身！胃年）公寓、购车z允W..节曰

Characterises of welfare	摄^会等暧心福礼

Companies to respect and care about special group and extensive care for women, love for
the retired employees, warm heart engineering, such as difficult staff support to the staff concern.

发放就餐补贴费用2439万元；

发放天然气补贴费用37000元；

发放购房租房补贴费用1353万元；

支付员工上下班免费交通车费用2500万元;

成功购买内部试销车989人；

帮助员工成功申请公租房469套；

申请入住单身（青年）公寓66人；

开展各位苷日慰问、高温慰问、福利品发放等共计金额1.92亿元;

公司坚持“绩效优先”及“有计划按比例”的原则，把员工作为企业成果的第一分享者，稳步推动员工收入的增长，人
均收入较上年度增幅超过8%。同时公司通过发放效益奖、绩效加薪、股权激励等方式进行成果分享，以企业经营质量的稳步
提升，来不断改善员工的生活品质。

Performance companies adhere to the "first'1 and the principle of ,m planned, the staff as enterprise achievement first
distributors, steadily promote employee's income growth, low per capita income rose more than 8% the previous year. By issuing
the same time, the company benefit award, merit increases and results in the form of equity incentive and sharing, with stable
improvement of quality of enterprise management, to improve the living quality of the staff.

STRONGLY PUSHING THE NEW TECHNOLOGIES
ACHIEVEMENT APPLICATION

建设）I苟共麗的合作关系

重视经销商满意度

FOCUS ON DEALER SATISFACTION

2016年公Z3开展两™经销商满意度调查工作，爿在调W方式上酋次尝试在线调研的新形式，减少对经t肖商时间的占用，
节省调研时间与成本，调查范围全面覆盖公司各业务，深入挖掘经诮商对合作各环节的5见与建议，科T分析出公3在各环
节需要整改的指标；1加以改进，为实现经销商与厂家的H利共Su融洽台作奠定基础。

Company always attaches great importance to the employees' occupational safety, occupational health and mental health,
increasing employee safety education training, take the initiative to identify hazards and harmful operating point, improve employee
safety awareness and skills, ensure labor insurance supplies distribution in place in time. Established and orientation, on-the-job
check-up system, build up the permanent electronic health record, aiming at the improvement of the physical examination results
for personalized solutions, security staffs physical and mental health.

渠道  Channel			2〇14年得分 In 2014, scoring	2015年得分 In 2015, scoring	2016年得分 In 2016, scoring
乘用车 Light trucks	全国  Light trucks		855	886	887
		康铃  Light trucks	883	892	923
轻卡	经销商 Light trucks	骏铃  Light trucks	842	880	951
Light trucks		帅铃  Light trucks	894	897	938
	服务站 Light trucks		884	891	911
皮卡	经销商 Light trucks		779	818	936
Light trucks	服务站 Light trucks		842	848	917
重卡	经销商 Light trucks		877	876	830
Light trucks	服务站 Light trucks		893	898	923
国际公司 Light trucks	总体  Light trucks		767	778	785

SYSTEM SECURITY	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE

体系保障	创新发展	协调发展

PEOPLE-ORIENTED

绿色发展

GREEN MANUFACTURING

开放发展

LEADING QUALITY

共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface

20-6社SH任报告/ 协调发展

通过渠庐发屐方案的实施，有效推讲衆泸持续向空白区
域延伸，全年新增一级网络193家，验收评审通过80家，新
增认证直营店113个,，当前运营一级专营店已达5/]9家，宣
营店/b9个，地级m_专营店玉率79%,县域网点覆」:,i率
38%,迸一歩芫络布局。注重专营店经营质‘，对专营
店基本达标要*实E月&评价，推动运S能力提升，经营质
逐步;向良___生循环。

Through the implementation of the channel development
plan, effective promoting channels continue to the blank area,
for the level of network 193, acceptance review by 80, 113
new stores authentication. At present, there are 549 shops,
759 of the outlets, 79 percent of the local specialty stores, 38
percent of the county area network, and further improve the
network layout. We will pay attention to the quality of business
operations, make monthly evaluation of the basic elements of
the specialty stores, promote the improvement of operation
ability, and gradually move the quality of operation into a
virtuous circle.

通过举办劳动竞赛和技能服务大赛，提升终端服务能
力，用行动践行敬客经营，加强经销商体系建设，提高网络
运营能力及网络竞争力。建立系统的评价指标，返利方式打
破传统正激励模式引入正负激励双模式，充分激发经销商不
进则退的竞争观念，突出市场占有率，各产品线单店销量明
显提高，推进了经销商的运营能力提升。

Through labor contests and service skills competition,
improving the capacity of terminal services, with action
practice respect guest management, strengthening the
construction of dealer system, improve the network capacity
and competitiveness. Rebates, establish the evaluation index
system, break traditional is to introduce the positive and
negative incentive mode dual mode, fully stimulate the dealer
not to advance is to go back competition idea, highlighting the
market share, the product line same-store sales were
improved obviously, promote the dealer's operating ability to
ascend.

\

乘用车营销公司
Passenger car marketing
company

重型商用车公司

Passenger car marketing
company

轻型商用车营销公司

Passenger ca「marketing
company

国际公司

Passenger ca「marketing
company

结合销售满意度震点整改项，在环境设施、销售人员能
力、交车服务等环节对经销商进行支持并加以提升，增强终
端经销商竞争力。

Combined with sales satisfaction improvement items, in
the environmental facilities, sales ability, pay the car service to
support and promote dealers, strengthen the competitive
power of the terminal dealers.

紧密围绕年度经销商服务培训实施计划，累计开展经销
商服务培训共计14次，其中，“请进来”服务培训7次，
“走出去”服务培训7次，累计授课501课时，参训人数达
166人次，提升经销商运营实力。

Closely around the annual dealer service training
implementation plan, the total dealers service training a total of
14 times, among them, "come in” 7 times in service training,
service training of "going out" seven times, teaching 501
classes, the number of the participation of 166 person-time,
dealers operating strength of ascension.

打造优质供应链~供应商合作

FOCUS ON DEALER SATISFACTION

公司坚持打造一流的供应链体系，建立科学、严谨、高标准、分层次的供应商准入机制。通过战略共享机制及平台，加
强与战略供方在产品共同硏发、标准建立、VA/VE、新材料新工艺应用等方面的深入合作和资源共享。

2016年与宝钢股份、中石化、中策橡胶、奥达科等行业内一流企业通过党建、技术交流等形式，强化融合，实现公司品
质与品牌价值的不断提升。同时，公司高度关注供应商依法合规经营开展情况，对安全、环保方便不达标的供应商实行“一
票否决”制。

The company is committed to building a first-class supply chain system, establishing scientific, rigorous, high standard and
hierarchical supplier access mechanism. Through strategic sharing mechanism and platform, to strengthen the strategic supplier h
product research and development, the standard establishment, VAA/E, new materials, new technology application, in-depth
cooperation and resources sharing.

2016 with baosteel, sinopec, zhongce rubber, such as Mr Dakota industry first-class enterprise through the form of party
construction, technical exchanges, strengthen integration, realize the company's quality and to improve the brand value. At the
same time, the company pays close attention to the supplier in accordance with the law compliance operation, and the "one vote
veto" system for suppliers who are not qualified for safety and environmental protection.

STRONGLY PUSHING THE NEW TECHNOLOGIES
ACHIEVEMENT APPLICATION

注重质量，打造卓越生产制造体系

2016年公司全面践行“敬客经营、质量为本、求真务实”的核心价值观，强化全体干部员工的质量意识，始终坚持“有
品质”的战略导向，紧紧围绕顾客满意度提升和质量管理体系建设，并以市场、试验场以及生产现场存在的问题为抓手。通
过正向预防和系统改进，促进产品可靠性质量和感官质量的提升，积极创新各项管理，确保了质量管理体系的有效运行，全
面提升了产品品质。报告期内，公司未发生重大产品质量、产品安全事故。

The company is committed to building a first-class supply chain system, establishing scientific, rigorous, high standard and
hierarchical supplier access mechanism. Through strategic sharing mechanism and platform, to strengthen the strategic supplier in
product research and development, the standard establishment, VA/VE, new materials, new technology application, in-depth
cooperation and resources sharing.

2016 with baosteel, sinopec, zhongce rubber, such as Mr Dakota industry first-class enterprise through the form of party
construction, technical exchanges, strengthen integration, realize the company's quality and to improve the brand value. At the
same time, the company pays close attention to the supplier in accordance with the law compliance operation, and the "one vote
veto" system for suppliers who are not qualified for safety and environmental protection.

					IO	
REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	IN D E P E N D E NT IN NOVATIO N  创新发展	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN IvlANUFACTURJMG  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface	2016社石贝任报古 / 协调发展

质量文化建设

FOCUS ON DEALER SATISFACTION

2016年公司承办了第五届全国质量文化建设成果
发布会，会上发布了公司参与制定的GB/T32230-
2015《企业质量文化建设指南》。公司获得中国质量
协会颁发的“全国质量文化建设示范单位”称号。

In 2016, the company undertook the fifth national
quality cultural construction product launch event, and
released the company's participation in the formulation of
GB/T32230-2015. The company obtains the title of
"national quality cultural construction demonstration unit"
issued by the China quality association.

70

质量信得过班组

为响应国家号召，公司围绕“提升供给质w，建设质¥强企”的主题质量月活
动，大力开展质量S传教育，广泛开展群众性质《活动，深入开展质升工作，走
近顾客和山场服务等各项活动，强化全体干部3工的质识，践行“敬客经营、质
量为本、求H务实"的核心价观。为鼓励先讲、树立标杆，评选出了/〇个质景信得

The talemec) person works	过班组，106名质量标兵。

advanced unit

m

质量标兵

The talented person works
advanced unit

In response to the national call, the company around the "improve supply quality, the
quality of construction enterprises" quality month activity, the theme of the vigorously carry
out publicity and education quality, encourage popular participation in quality, carry out
quality improvement work, approached the customer and the market service and other
activities, strengthen the quality consciousness of all staff, the practice of "respect guest
management, quality, practical" core values. In order to encourage the advanced and set
up the standard, we have awarded 70 quality letters to the class and 106 quality pacers.

质量文化建设

FOCUS ON DEALER SATISFACTION

持续ffi进内_ePS培训，培训内容涵」,i新版质量管理体系、新版环境管理体系、TS16949、职业健康安全管理体系和TSTl
大丄E(APQP、PPAP、FMEA、MSA、SPC),培训完成后共有60人通过考试取得资格证书,，

Advance the internal training, training content covers the new, the new environmental management system, TS16949 quality
management system, occupational health and safety management system and the TS five big tools (APQP, PPAP, FMEA, MSA,
SPC), after completion of training a total of 60 people to pass the exam to obtain the qualification certificate.

质量法规管理

FOCUS ON DEALER SATISFACTION

公司召回及三包管ais行平稳=依据围家颁布的《缺陷汽车产呂召回管理条例》要求，公司持续优化安全件泊溯系统(包括
二追溯系统i组纟只开展s回预演、&案召回资料以及宙核关挺供应商，提升召|。|®溯管理能力。组织开展^田安全气曩
传感杰召M工;乍：共i十治或召M9/:1筠，召MS成率9^19%,按妃向国家质检总局和缺B产品召冋SEE中心提交召回总结。

The company recalls and the three package management run smoothly. Issued according to the state of defect automobile
product recall management ordinance, the company continuously optimize safety traceability system (including the secondary
traceability system), the organization carries out the recall preview, for the record to recall information and audit key suppliers,
enhance recall back management ability. Organize for recall takada airbag sensors, a total of complete recall of 941 vehicles, recall
completion rate of 94.19%, to the general administration of quality supervision, inspection and quarantine on schedule and defect
product recall management center to submit summary recall.

MDI关键定_指标数据库

www.mqi.org.cn

REPORT PREFACE	SYSTEM SECURITY	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE

报告前言	体系保曈	创新发展	协调发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report

质M工具方法推广及人才霞设

FOCUS ON DEALER SATISFACTION

全员质y活动蓬勃发展，全年QC成貝19Z6个，8个小组被主e部'Ti平选为优秀QC小组，]4中发动机公司°刀锋’'
qc小组荣获了 "2〇16年田呩7允秀质aea小组会奖"称号。

质量队句安计划推迸.：完成码:绿带、2KSQE.. 2捉内H员等专项培训工7乍，累计培_-230余名人员。全年0入肩
过黒芑认证、23入绿6认证：累计培_黑彳丨_36名，绿转87名。

Total quality activities to flourish, QC results throughout the year 1946, eight team was voted by the competent department of
outstanding QC team, including "blade" engine company QC team won the "excellent quality management team gold medal 2016
international" title.

Quality team culture is progressing as planned. Complete the four green belt, 2 period SQE and 2 period of the special
training work, the accumulative more than 230 personnel. Throughout the whole year, four people have been certified by black belt
and 23 green belt certification, and have a total of 36 black belt and 87 green belt.

PEOPLE-ORIENTED

绿色发展

GREEN MANUFACTURJNG

开放发展

LEADING QUALITY

共享发展

Report preface 20 16社会责任报告丨协调发展

产品适应性试验

FOCUS ON DEALER SATISFACTION

公司策划2016年“四A—山”试验L-l-划，对点訢产品、成熟
产品、变型变动广品和标杆车型迸彳了咼湿、局温、局原、局寒、山区
条件下试验验证。同时选取重点车型，开展可靠性试验，确保整车可
靠性优异。

Total quality activities to flourish, QC results throughout the year
1946, eight team was voted by the competent department of
outstanding QC team, including "blade" engine company QC team won
the "excellent quality management team gold medal 2016 international"
title.

Quality team culture is progressing as planned. Complete the four
green belt, 2 period SQE and 2 period of the special training wo「k, the
accumulative more than 230 personnel. Throughout the whole yea「，fou「
people have been certified by black belt and 23 green belt certification,
and have a total of 36 black belt and 87 green belt.

古：曰
问mn

High humidity

高寒	山区

High humidity	High humidity



SYSTEM GUARANTEE

Gomprehensively implementing social

responsibility management

www.mai

		■9"		8S	IO	
REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION  创新发展	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN lvlANUFACTU_G  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface	2016社会贲任报告	/	绿色发展

公司积、极响应党和国家号召，坚定不移的把建设资源节约型、环境友好型企业的发展思路贯彻于生产经营管
理中，做到在发展生产中保护环境，在保护环境中促进生产发展，实现经济、社会、环境三者的协调统一与健康
发展。报告期内，公司末发生重大环境污染与破坏事故。

Total quality activities to flourish, QC results throughout the year 1946, eight team was voted by the competent
department of outstanding QC team, including "blade" engine company QC team won the "excellent quality
management team gold medal 2016 international" title.

Quality team culture is progressing as planned. Complete the four green belt, 2 period SQE and 2 period of the
special training work, the accumulative more than 230 personnel. Throughout the whole year, four people have been
certified by black belt and 23 green belt certification, and have a total of 36 black belt and 87 green belt.

公司节能减排领导小组为常设机构，由公司总经理任组
长、总经理助理为常务副组长，各事业部总经理为副组长、事
业部分管领导为成员，同时设立了相关职能部门负责具体实施
的工作小组，统筹协调部署全公司的节能减排工作。

公司分层级制定节能减排管理目标，分解纳入各事业部年度KPI业绩
合同。同时结合目标指标和年度节能重点工作及政府节能、节水管理两项
标准要求，形成内部环保、节能、节水评价标准，定期开展综合评价，并
将考评结果纳入年度管理评价范畴。

Company leading group for energy conservation and
emissions reduction as the standing body, coalesced into by the
company general manager, assistant general manager as the
deputy team leader, each department general manager vice
group leader, the department in charge of the leadership for its
member's, and set up the relevant functional departments sha丨丨 be
responsible for the concrete implementation of the team, to
coordinate the deployment of energy conservation and emissions
reduction work in the corporation.

The company has set the target of energy conservation and emission
reduction, and has been incorporated into the annual KPI performance contract
of the ministry of industry. Key combination target index and annual energy
work anc.1 government two standards requirements, energy saving, water saving
management form the internal evaluation standard of environmental protection,
energy saving, water saving on a regular basis to carry out the comprehensive
evaluation, and assessment results should be brought into the annual
management evaluation.

分级制定节能减排技改方案，定
期征集评选公司优秀节能减排项目，
展示节能减排管理、技改成果，并在
全公司进行分享及推广应用。

Ranking transformation, energy
saving and emission reduction for
evaluating the company on a regular
basis fo「energy conservation and
emissions「eduction projects, shows the
energy conservation and emissions
「eduction management, technical
achievement, and to share in the
company and the popularization and
application.

2016年结合公司实际情况，修订
环保能源计分制考评细则并定期公布
考评。通过自查自改、组织评审等方
式，实现重点、难点工作全过程可追
溯，严肃过程管控、责任落实。

In 2016, we will revise the detailed
rules of the environmental protection
energy scoring system and publish the
reviews regularly. Through self-
examination self-reform, organization
review and so on, the whole process of
the key and difficult work can be traced,
the serious process control and the
responsibility are carried out.

▽

定期识别国家、±也方、行业有关节能减排的法律法规，组纟只制定和完善公司节能减排规章制度和管理标准。导入能源管理体系，建立起一
套完整的能源管理流程及绩效参数，并于2016年成为安徽省首批通过能源管理体系认证的企业。

To regularly identify the laws and regulations on energy conservation and emission reduction by the state, local and industry, and organize the
formulation and improvement of the rules and regulations on energy conservation and emission reduction by the company. Import the energy
management system, establish a complete set of energy management process and performance parameters, and in 2016 became the first batch of
anhui province by the energy management system certification enterprises.

FOCUS ON DEALER SATISFACTION

节能减排专项工作推进

2016年公司节能减排案例47项，其中工艺节
能8项、设备节能21项、技术节能3项、管理节能
8项、综合节能5项、污染物减排2项。

In 2016, there are 47 energy-saving and
emissions-reduction cases in the company,
including 8 items, 21 items, 3 technologies, 8
energy conservation, 8 energy conservation, 5
comprehensive energy saving, 2 pollutant
reduction.

2225.05 胃	408F

2016年总节能量约为	节约能耗成本

The talented person works	The talented person works

advanced unit	advanced unit

雨污水分流管理 Rain water shunt management

持续开展雨污水双周检测，采用水下摄像头等工具，查找管网渗漏源，定期识别污水处理风险
点，每季度组织各单位召开风险点对接会议，实现精益化管理。雨污分流工作得到固化，运营风险内
部信息共享，进一步强化了网格化管理。

Continue on double week「ain water detection, the use of underwater cameras tools, find the pipeline
leakage source, on a regular basis to identify sewage treatment risk points, each quarter risk point
docking meeting organizational units, realize the lean management. The water pollution diversion wo「k is
solidified, the operation risk internal information sharing, further strengthened the grid management-

Rain water shunt management

依据新《大气污染防治法》要求，持续推动工艺废气风险治理工作，共投入203.5万元，对部分
调漆间、循环水房、补漆间废气进行收集处理，对技术中心油库加装了油气回收装置，对发动机台架
增加尾气净化装置，确保在异常状况下废气均能达标排放。

Continue on double week「ain water detection, the use of uncle「wate「cameras tools, find the pipeline
leakage source, on a「egula「basis to identify sewage treatment risk points, each quarter risk point
docking meeting organizational units, realize the lean management- The water pollution diversion wo「k is
solidified, the operation risk internal information sharing, further strengthened the grid management.

S斤能源应用 Rain water shunt management

近年来外部节能指标日趋严格，“十三五”碳排放核查与碳资产交易将在全国范围内推行。为降
低公司指标达成风险，实现经济效益和社会效益双臝，同时加快采用合同能源管理模式，推进太阳能
光伏发电建设。成立项目小组，明确职责及推进计划，借鉴江淮铸造公司太阳能光伏发电项目成功经
验，全面推进各厂区光伏发电项目建设。

Continue on double week rain water detection, the use of underwater cameras tools, find the pipeline
leakage source, on a regular basis to identify sewage treatment risk points, each quarter risk point
docking meeting organizational units, realize the lean management. The water pollution diversion work is
solidified, the operation risk internal information sharing, further strengthened the grid management.

J^i^C

www.mqi.org.cn

			三〇〇三	se	IO	
REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION  创新发展	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTUfyNG  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface 2016社会责任报告 /	绿色发展

FOCUS ON DEALER SATISFACTION

积极推进节能环保新技术应用

公司不断探索，研发节能环保新技术，采用先进技术工艺和设备，持续提高资源利用率。恪守企业社会责任，
积极参与节能减排行动。

The company keeps exploring, developing new technologies for energy conservation and environmental
protection, adopting advanced technology technology and equipment, and continuously improving the utilization rate of
resources. We will abide by corporate social responsibility and actively participate in energy conservation and emission
reduction efforts.

雨水分流管理 Rain water shunt management





每年节省运行费用
The talented person works
advanced unit

34.6%

每年节省运行费用
The talented person works
advanced unit

采用循环风，将室外新风经空调机组调爷到温度23°C、相对湿度65%左右送入人工喷涂段，再将人工涂段的风量送入机
器人喷涂段重复利用，新风风量减少近50%〇每年节省运行费用49.4万元，节能34.6%，节能效果显著。

use wind circulation, the outdoor fresh air through the air conditioning unit to adjust to the temperature of 23 °C; relative
humidity 65% into artificial spraying, artificial besmear again repeated use of the airflow into the robot spraying paragraphs, fresh
air volume reduction of nearly 50%. The annual cost savings of 49.40 million yuan, the energy saving 34.6%, the energy saving
effect is remarkable.



MtlasCopcc 15.6-25.9

按全年12天计算，累计节约费用
The talented person works
advanced unit

空压机增加热能回收系统，将其转换为热水，在空压机热能不满足要求正常生产时可切换为蒸汽加热。通过测算，冬季
每天可节约蒸汽6〜10吨，平均每天蒸汽费用约1296-2160元，按照全年需保温120天计算，累计节约费用15.6-25.9万元。

use wind circulation, the outdoor fresh air through the air conditioning unit to adjust to the temperature of 23 °C, relative
humidity 65% into artificial spraying, artificial besmear again repeated use of the airflow into the robot spraying paragraphs, fresh
air volume reduction of nearly 500/〇. The annual cost savings of 49.40 million yuan, the energy saving 34-6〇/〇, the energy saving
effect is remarkable.

万元

涂装车间蒸汽使用管控改善

The painting room of the anqing project is recycled

每年可节约蒸汽量
The talented person works
advanced unit

年节约蒸汽费用约
The talented person works
advanced unit

在不同季节，通过日常管控及现场验证，调整蒸汽压力，达到调节温度的目的。通过改善每年可节约蒸汽量960吨，年节
约蒸汽费用约22万元。

use wind circulation, the outdoor fresh air through the air conditioning unit to adjust to the temperature of 23 °C, relative
humidity 65% into artificial spraying, artificial besmear again repeated use of the airflow into the robot spraying paragraphs, fresh
air volume reduction of nearly 50%. The annual cost savings of 49.40 million yuan, the energy saving 34.6%, the energy saving
effect is remarkable.

		'S'	三〇〇三	as	IO	
REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION  创新发展	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTURING  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface	2016社会责任报告	/ 绿色发展

FOCUS ON DEALER SATISFACTION

营造绿色文化氛围

公司全面开展绿色文化在公司全休员丄中形成共R的节约和有效利用资©、保护和改S环境z介值观念，
并贡彻于生产经营SEE的实践中，丨故到在发展生产屮保护环垃，在保护环境中促进生产发屐，努力打iE江淮汽车公
司特有的“绿色文化”氛围。

Company overall green culture construction, and formed in the company all staff common and effective utilization
of resources saving, protection and improvement of environmental values, and implement in the practice of production
and operation management, to protect the environment in the development of production, in the protection of the
environment promotes the development of production, to create unique jianghuai auto company "green culture"
atmosphere.

,_节水宣传

’ Rain water shunt management

公司内部通过张贴宣传周主题活动横幅及标语、节水自查整改等方式，开展节水宣传周活动，激发全员参与节水活动的
积极性，营造良好的节水氛围。

Company by post banners and slogans, water saving publicity week theme activities comprehensive rectification, developing
water saving publicity week activities, arouse the enthusiasm of participation and water-saving activities, creating a favorable
wate「environment.

节能宣传

Rain water shunt management

2016年6月11日-17日开展节能宣传周活动，在全公司范围内开展芳能宣传、节能经验分享；配合安徽省暨市政府节能
办，公司展出新能源汽车并参加合肥市节能宣传周活动启动仪式，同时开展节能降耗百日劳动竞赛、节能低碳日活动，营造
良好的绿色文化氛围。

On June 11-17, 2016, we will carry out the activities of the energy conservation awareness week, and we will carry out
energy saving campaigns and energy saving experiences throughout the company. In anhui province and city government
JieNengBan exhibition, we new energy vehicles and participate in hefei launch energy saving publicity week activities, at the same
time to carry out energy saving one hundred clay labor competition, energy saving low carbon activities, build good green culture
atmosphere.

					IO	
REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION  创新发展	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  协调发展	PEOPLE-OR]ENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTURING  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展
		2015	Social Responsibility Report i	'Report preface	2016社会责任报告	/ 绿色发展

FOCUS ON DEALER SATISFACTION

节能减排绩效

-

2225J  2016年全年共节	05吨  约标煤
We will save the coal f	or the whole of 2016
超额完成合肥市经委_ Exceeding the commi; . city of hefei Energy et 'tons of coal	F达的1100吨标煤的苷能目标 ssion of Jhe commission of the Ticiency targets of 1100 metric

指标	2015年	2016 年
indicators	In 2015	In 2015
环保总投资（万元） Light trucks	5423	2847
COD排放量（吨） Light trucks	88.28	89.3
废水排放量（吨） Light trucks	1267921	1739101
废渣排放量（吨） Light trucks	6544.4	2455.9
单位产值水耗（吨水/万元） Light trucks	0.34	0.27

序号  NO	指标  indicators	2015年目标值 In 2015	目議
1	单台水量消耗下降率 Light trucks	5423	5423
2	单台综合能耗降低率 Light trucks	88.28	88.28
3	节约标煤量 Light trucks	1267921	1267921

■ 2015年	■ 2016年

■ 2015年	_ 2016年

ao12〇 __EE

I 0.0120

单位产值能耗
(吨标煤/万元）

Energy consumption
|)er unit of output

0.0019

0-0006

单位产值能源节约量
(吨标煤/万元）

Energy consumption
^)er unit of output

工业固废综合利用率（％) 工业用水重复利用率（％)
Industrial consolidation efficiency (%) Industrial consolidation efficiency (%)

FOCUS ON DEALER SATISFACTION

坚实保障安全生产平稳运行

公司贯彻落实省、市及行业主管部门安全生产相关要求，以“关爰员工、安全发展”为目标指引，以“机械化
换人、自动化减人”为引领，以安全生产责任制的落实及安全生产标准化巩固提升为抓手，强化职业健康教育及职
业卫生基础建设工作，完善标准流程，营造良好的安全生产环境。报告期内未发生重大安全事故。

Companies implement the provincial, municipal and industry department in charge of production safety
requirements, in order to "care for employees and security development" as the goal, to mechanized substitution,
automation reduced people "as the lead, with the implementation of responsibility system for production safety and
production safety standardization consolidate promoted to gripper, strengthening occupational health education and
occupational health infrastructure, perfect the standard process, create a good environment for the safe production of.
No major safety accidents occurred during the reporting period.

安全知识竞赛

Safety knowledge
competition

天锻疋1

www. me



			三〇〇三	as	IO	
REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	IN D E P E N D E NT IN NOVATIO N  创新发展	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTUfyNG  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface	20 16社会责任f艮告	/	绿色发展

安全管理人员

取证培训班

Safety management
personnel forensics
training class

安全管理人员

取证培训班

Safety management
p㊀rsonnel forensics
training class

氛围营造一一横幅标语

Safety management
personnel forensics
training class

安全绩效管理

FOCUS ON DEALER SATISFACTION

危险源识别管理
Dangerous source
identification
management

公司级安全检查
Corporate level
security check

事业部级自查自改
Business units’
self-examination
and self- improvement

职业健康管理

Occupational health
management

教育管理

Education & Training

安全正激励

Positive inspiration
of safety

安全投入

Security input

事故管理

Accident

management

一般危险源 General hazards	三非及特別意外模式危险源项 Three non and unexpected hazards	重要危险源项 Important hazards
35523项 items	3235取 items	39项 items
各类安全检查  All kinds of safety inspection	排查安全隐患 Troubleshooting potential safety hazard	完成整改 Rectification
30项 items	2250项 items	2250项 items
累计排查重大安全隐患 Investigating potential safety problems	累计排查一般安全隐患 Investigating general safely problems	累计整改 Rectification
无	6500项 items	6500项 items
职业危害作业点  Occupational hazards operating places	检测达标率 Standard rate	职业健康体检人数 The number of occupationa health examination
360个 units	94.5%	4322A persons
专业培训  Professional Training	参培人数 Training people	操作类资格取证 Operation class getting certification
24次 times	1432起	868人 persons
一线安全奖励 Security rewards	安全主题活动 Security theme activity	安全QC项目  Security QC projects
119.71万元 ten thousand yuan	33.8万元  ten thousand yuan	2.3万元  ten thousand yuan
安全投入计划项目 Security input plan projects	计划完成率 Fulfillment completion	安全投入资金 Security investment capital
270项 items	99%	3994万元  ten thousand yuan
工伤事故  Accident work injury	干人负伤率  The「ate of thousands injured people	公司控制指标 Company control index
轻伤5起 Slight injury	0.24%〇	1.9%

分布

Distribution
441 个点 places

整改率

Rate

100%

整改率

Rectification Rate
100%

体检率

Physical

nation

100%

管理类资格取证
Management class
getting certification

105人 persons

预算完成率
Budget completion
rate

99%

开放发展

共创互利合作新格局

SYSTEM GUARANTEE

Gomprehensively implementing social
responsibility management

FOCUS ON DEALER SATISFACTION

市场竞争力稳步提升

2016年公司经营指标概述

FOCUS ON DEALER SATISFACTION



2016年公司销售各类
汽车及底盘64.33万
辆，同比增长9.43 %，

In 2016, the company
sold 64.33 million
vehicles and chassis,
up 9.43 percent year
on year.

实现营业收入524.91亿
元，同比增长13.16%,

Revenue was 524.91
billion yuan, up 13.16
percent year on year.

实现归属于上市公司股
东的净利润11.62亿
元，同比增长
35_49%〇

The net profit of the
listed company's
shareholders was
11.62 billion yuan, up
35.49 percent year on
year.

获奖情况

AWARDS

(	颁奖单位 丨	颁奖单位	'i
	全球新能源汽车大会	中国年度绿色汽车奖	
	中国质量评价协会	科技创新成果二等奖	
	中国汽车报	年度企业社会责任奖	
	中国卡车网	2016年度中国卡车用户最信赖轻卡	
	爰卡汽车	年度最佳设计奖	
	汽车与运动杂志社	2016 “中国心”十佳发动机奖项	
	安徽省机械行业联合会、安徽省机械工程学会联合会	2016年安徽省机械工业科学技术奖	
	中国机械工业联合会、中国汽车工业协会	入选中国汽车工业三十强企业大名里	
	第九届中国国际卡车节油大赛	节油冠军	

^ m | -V-	A. 4b 4i= jKIr -fcff dfc

Hrl_丨天链疋重ra称效据阵

P/90：

			三〇〇三		IO	
REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	IN D E P E N D E NT IN NOVATIO N  创新发展	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTURING  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface	2016社会责任报告	/ 开放发展

产品市场突出表现

AWARDS

2月1曰

On February 1,

江淮星锐批量交付电信公司

Jianghuai star is in batch to deliver telecom company

8月23日

On February 1,

首批600辆江淮iEV4交付用户。

Jianghuai star is in batch to deliver telecom company

12月11日

On February 1.

500台江淮iEV纯电动汽车的交付仪式在山东青州举办。

Jianghuai star is in batch to deliver telecom company

12月22日

On February 1,

M〇[

85台二代瑞风M5交付租赁公司。

Jianghuai star is in batch to deliver telecom company

www.mqi.org.cn

					IO	
REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	IN D E P E N D E NT IN NOVATIO N  创新发展	PURSUINGTHE EXCELLENCE  协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTURING  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface	2016社会责任报告	I	开放发展

FOCUS ON DEALER SATISFACTION

国际市场地位进一步巩固

56678辆

其中轻型车出口 15941台
重卡出口3083台
乘用车出口37654台

The light vehicle exports 15,941

Heavy export 3083 units

The passenger car exports 37,654

2016年，公司共实现出口各类汽车
基本与行业持平

In 2016, the company will export all kinds
^basically flat

截止2016年，公司已累计获得29款
车型1000余份国际认证，自1990年
首次批量出口玻利维亚，公司累计出
口量超过45万辆，累计出□创汇
18.8亿美元，年出口创汇数额占销售
收入10%左右，出口排名由第八位上
升至第五位。

By 2016, the company has won 29
models more than 1000 international
certification, bulk exports for the first time
since 1990, Bolivia, total exports more
than 450000 vehicles, total export
amount has reached $1.88 billion,
amount to earn foreign exchange
through export sales accounted for
about 10%, ranked fifth, up from 8 for
export.

THE INTERNATIONAL

MARKET

%

«

目前，公司已出口到南美、欧洲、非
洲、亚洲等区域

At present, the company has been
exported to South America, Europe,
Africa, Asia and so on

I30

与全球多个国家建立了良好的合作关系
Good cooperation with many
countries around the world

I008

拥有上百家海外4S店

It has 100 overseas 4S shops

在海外建立了 19家KD工厂，越南、肯
尼亚2家合资公司和俄罗斯1家全资子
公司。

There are 19 KD factories overseas, two
joint ventures in Vietnam and Kenya, and
one wholly owned subsidiary in Russia.

在全球多个国家和地区，江淮汽车始终保持着中国汽车品牌细分市场的领先地位

In many countries and regions around the world, jianghuai automobile has always maintained the
leading position of Chinese auto brand segment market

在拉美的玻利维亚、乌拉圭、巴
拉圭等市场，江淮轻卡已超越曰
本和欧洲产品，成为当地轻卡市
场第一品牌

In Latin America, such as Bolivia,
Uruguay and Paraguay, jac has
surpassed Japan and European
products to become the first brand
of local light card market.

在非洲的阿尔及利亚，江淮轻卡
拥有40多个销售服务网点，市
场保有量近4万台，占有率超过
45%

In Algeria in Africa, jianghuai light
card has more than 40 sales
service outlets, with nearly 40,000
market and more than 45% of the
market.

在中东的伊朗，2016年江淮瑞
风S5以近2万辆的销量夺得当地
中国汽车品牌SUV销量冠军

In Iran in the Middle East,
jianghuai S5, in 2016, won the
local Chinese auto brand SUV
sales by nearly 20,000 vehicles.

在亚洲的孟加拉市场，2016年
江淮轻卡在中国品牌出□的占有
率超过45%，强势巩固了出口
第一位次。

In the Asian market for
Bangladesh, jac has more than 45
per cent of the Chinese brand's
exports in 2016, strengthening its
first export position.

FOCUS ON DEALER satisfaction

w际市场大事件

2016年1月7日，江淮汽车阿尔及利亚KD工厂举彳7签字仪式，成为江淮汽车在非汧大ffi.的寅一家
KD工厂。

On January 7,2016, jianghuai automobile Algerian KD factory held a signing ceremony to become the first
KD factory in the African continent.



2016年3月28日，江淮乘用车在巴拉圭上市，巴拉圭总统奧利西奧■卡特斯莅临现场参加发布仪
式，并亲自试乘试驾JAC产品。

On January 7, 2016, jianghuai automobile Algerian KD factory held a signing ceremony to become the first
KD factory in the African continent.

			三00三		IO	
REPORT PREFACE	SYSTEM SECURITY	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE	PEOPLE-ORIENTED	GREEN MANUFACTURING	LEADING QUALITY
报告前言	体系保障	创新发展	协调发展	绿色发展	开放发展	共享发展
		2015 Social Responsibility Report /		Report preface	2016社会责任报告	/开放发展

2016年5月10日，随着420台格尔发重卡的发运，公司出口委内瑞拉的5239台重卡订单全部完成
交付，为我国近年来重卡出口第一大单划上了圆满句号。

On January 7, 2016, jianghuai automobile Algerian KD factory held a signing ceremony to become the
first KD factory in the African continent.

2016年11月3日，在中哈总理第三次会晤期间，李克强总理和哈萨克斯坦总理萨金塔耶夫共同
见证了哈萨克斯坦江淮汽车KD工厂项目启动仪式。

On January 7, 2016, jianghuai automobile Algerian KD factory held a signing ceremony to become
the first KD factory in the African continent.

2016年11月4日，公司携旗下各精英车型亮相第六届澳门车展。

On January 7, 2016, jianghuai automobile Algerian KD factory held a signing ceremony to become the
first KD factory in the African continent.

FOCUS ON DEALER SATISFACTION

“一带一路”建设

想矜"一带一路_'战珞的深入落买，中国与沿线国家经贸仨只更加密切：公积极把坯这一战珞契机，结续深入推迸沿
线国家的内场开发和战略布局：对沿线国家的出口*大頃攀升：

在"一;？一Sg”沿线60多个国家中，已出口约30个，占到了总数的1/2,且出□规模SIH__央速增长趋势。2016年，公司
“一带一路"沿线国家实现出口3.9万I两，出□疆占到了江淮出□总量的68.65%,主要出□国家包括中东地区的伊朗、埃
及，中亚的哈萨克斯坦，西南亚的孟加拉、里兰卡，东+」亚的菲律宾、老以及东欧等国家。

江淮汽车□经在10个“一&一路”沿线国家建立了合资公司或tl装工厂，包括越南合资公司，以及在孟加拉、埃及、巴
基斯坦、越哨、菲律宾、马来西亚、俄罗斯、哈萨克斯in、伊朗的9个KD工厂，组装产品覆盖江淮轻卡及乘月车产品。

万辆

沿线国家实现出口
The talented person works
advanced unit

68.65%

出口量占到了江淮出口总量

The talented person works

advanced unit

Along with the in-depth implementation of "area" strategy, China and the state economic and trade exchanges more closely,
the company actively grasp the strategic opportunity, further advance along the country's market development and strategic layout,
to rise sharply along the country's exports.

Of the more than 60 countries along the One Belt And One Road, some 30 have been exported, accounting for one in two of
the total, and the export scale is growing rapidly. Countries along the way "established in 2016, the company" to export 39000,
exports accounted for 68.65% of the jianghuai exports, the main export countries, including Iran, Egypt, in the Middle East of
Kazakhstan in central Asia, southwestern Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and southeast Asia, Vietnam, the Philippines, Laos, and eastern
Europe and other countries.

■	JLi- a* r-J-1 t=l	x- XUL

丨关键足零指标费

www. m qi.org.cn



共享发展

创建幸福美好家园

SYSTEM GUARANTEE

Gomprehensively implementing social
responsibility management

FOCUS ON DEALER SATISFACTION

贡献当地经济发展

2016年，公司继续发挥地方经济发展的推动作用，打拉动了地I又的人才及相关产业的
发展，为当地的可持续发展贡献了企业应尽的责任。

在台肥本部，形成了一个集制造、资本、品牌、物A和山场网络为一体的产业基地，
配套零部件厂商效白家，每年仅尤购金额达150多亿元，带动周边就业10万多人。

| Q万多人

带动周边就业

The talented person works

advanced unit

In 2016, the company continues to play a role of local economic development, and led
people in the region and the development of relevant industries, contributing to the sustainable
development of the local is the responsibility of the enterprise.

Based in hefei, formed a set of manufacturing, capital, brand, logistics and marketing
network for the integration of industry base, supporting hundreds of parts and components
manufacturers, purchasing amount is more than 150 only 150 yuan a year, improve
surrounding employment more than 100000 people.

150

每年采购金额

The talented person works

advanced unit

山东青州

分公司具有计划年产10万台轻卡的能力，以汽车生产为中心，吸引了一大批配套零部件厂商入驻，带动周边相关配套产业和
三十多家中小企业发展，仅配套企业每年就实现产值40多亿元，带动就业人数3000多人，成为当地经济的重要增长极。

Branch has planned annual output of 100000 sets of the ability of light trucks, centered on car production, attracted a large number
of form a complete set of spare parts manufacturers, improve surrounding related supporting industries and more than 30 small
business development in the home, only supporting enterprises realize the output value of more than 40, one hundred million yuan
each year, drive the employment of more than 3000 people, has become an important growth pole of the local economy.

安徽蒙城

江淮安驰公司带动就业2000多人，实现产值20多亿元；

The company has more than 2,000 people and more than 20 billion yuan in production.

江苏扬州

带动就业2500余人，实现产值10亿多元

The company has more than 2,000 people and more than 20 billion yuan in production.

四川遂宁

四川江淮拉动产值20多亿元，带动就业1500多人

The company has more than 2,000 people and more than 20 billion yuan in production.

REPORT PREFACE

报告前言

SYSTEM SECURITY	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE

体系保障	创新发展	协调发展

PEOPLE-ORIENTED

绿色发展

GREEN MANUFACTURING

开放发展

LEADING QUALITY

共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface

2016社会责任报告/共享发展

FOCUS ON DEALER SATISFACTION

股东利益维护

2016年，公司共召开3次股东大会，审议了公司的非公开发行、合资合作及重大投资等事项，充分发挥了股东大
会的决策作用，保证股东的合法权益。

In 2016, the company held a total of 3 times the shareholders meeting,「eview the company’s non-public, joint venture
cooperation, and big investment, give full play to the decision-making function of general meeting of shareholders,
guarantee the legitimate rights and interests of shareholders.

投资者关系管理体系

^ AWARDS

2016年，公司依托股东大亡、投资者交流会及电话交流会等多种方式共接待设资名8b人次，安排投资者试乘试驾江淮
iEV6S、瑞风S2、瑞风A60等车型，打及时披S定期报告、每月产销快汛和M他临时公告。2016年公3组织实施了2015年
度利;W分配，按公司总股本1小63亿股为S数，每10股派发现金股利1.8元（含税），合L十派发现金股利2.63亿元。

In 2016, the company depends on the general meeting of shareholders, investors, communication and telephone exchange a
variety of ways, such as reception of investors 85 pe「son_time, arrange investors try—out driving jianghuai iEV6S, refine S2 and
refine A60 models, and timely disclosure of periodical reports, monthly production and marketing and other temporary
announcement- Company in 2016 to organize the implementation of the 2015 annual profit distribution, according to the company's
total equity base 1.463 billion shares, for every 10 shares distributing cash dividend of 1.8 yuan (including tax), total distributing
cash dividend of 263 million yuan.

1 “三会一层”及独立董事

<^1 AWARDS

公司设立“三会一层”及_rfn十、战略、薪酬与考核、提名四大t业委员会，建立起完善的法人治理结构。2016年公
事分增选董事一员，公司e*会中共有12位成S,其屮独立董事爿人四大专业委员会均由独立董事担f[主f_[委S,从[fD保鈴
了 S亨会决策的科学性和相对独立性。。

The company sets up "three meeting one floor" and the audit, the strategy, the pay and the appraisal, nominate the four
professional committee, establishes the perfect corporate governance st「uctu「e. There a「e 12 members of the board of director's of
the board of directors in 2016, including 4 independent director's. All fou「professional committees a「e chaired by independent
directors, which ensures the scientific and relative independence of the board's decisions.

|函|公司稳定成长

1ZIxrl.l AWARDS

2016年公司销仏各类汽车及底& 64.33万辆，同比增长9.43%,实现营业收入524.91亿元，同比增长13.16%。截止
到2016年12月31日，公司市值Ci大218.87亿，同比增K约为4.09%。

In 2016, the company sold a total of 64.33 million vehicles and chassis, up 9.43 percent from a year ago, to 524.91 billion
yuan, up 13.16 percent year on year. As of December 31, 2016, the company's market value was 218.87 billion, up about 4.09
percent year on year.

FOCUS ON DEALER SATISFACTION

营造和谐社区环境

公司积极结合周边社区搭建互动促进平台，组织各级党组织开展党员进社区活动，解决人民问题，服务广大群众。

公司老年大学还主动与所属社区研讨老年教育的崭新模式，组建了老年大学健身队、合唱团及书画研究会等社会团体。
多次应邀参加省、市政府及包河区举办的书画摄影展、广场文化节、社区文艺汇演等一系列活动，先后斩获多项殊荣。既彰
显了公司的良好形象，又点缀着社区文化的绚烂篇章，构建了健康向上的和谐氛围。

The company actively combines the neighborhood community to build the interactive platform, organizes the party
organizations at all levels to carry out party members into the community activities, solves the people’s problem, serves the
masses.

Older university also actively and belongs to the community discussion elderly education new mode, set up the old university
fitness team, choir and the calligraphy and painting research association and other social groups. Repeatedly invited to provincial
and municipal governments and cultural festival of painting and calligraphy exhibition, package riverfront square, community
literature and art joint performance and a series of activities, has won many awards. Both the good image of the company and the
brilliant chapter of the community culture, the harmonious atmosphere of health up.

周隼曁_长征胜利閼周年

it 、 书画展



www.mqi.c

			l〇〇z		IO	
REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION  创新发展	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTURING  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface	2016社会责任报告	i 共旱发展

FOCUS ON DEALER SATISFACTION

热心公益事业

公司将参与社会公益活动作为履行社会责任的重要组成部分，坚持以“关爰弱势群体”为主线开展公益活动，
并倡导企业全价值链共同参与。

Company will participate in social public welfare activities as an important part of social responsibility, adhere to the
"care for the disadvantaged" as the main line to carry out public welfare activities, and advocates the enterprise value
chain to participate.

瑞风行动

awards

公司持续开展以关爰留守儿童为主题的公益活动，于2016年6月启动“牵手瑞风行动”公益项目，走进凤阳、颖东、东
至、长丰等4个地区，为当地留守儿童送去关爰与问候。

Company continued to ca「e fo「left-behind children as the theme of public welfare activities, in June 2016 to start the "hand of
refine action" public welfare project, entered the fengyang, YingDong, east to, changfeng 4 regions, for the local left-behind
children sent to care and greetings.

“联合行动■江淮平安行”活动

"Joint action ■ jianghai" activities .___________________

江淮汽车联合安徽省交警大队、文明办以及安徽广电中心发起的“联合行动■江淮平安行”活动，历时3个月，先后走过
安徽合肥、颖上、界首等多个城市，致力于提高中国商用车行业安全素养，强调道路安全的理念，普及行车规则和文明交通
意识，从而提升参与者的社会道德意识。

Jianghuai auto joint anhui province traffic police brigade, government, and anhui radio and television center "joint action,
jianghuai peace line" activities, lasted for 3 months, successively passed on anhui hefei, novelty, claimed yesterday, and many
other cities, to improve China's commercial vehicle industry safety quality, emphasis on the concept of road safety, universal
driving traffic rules and civilization consciousness, so as to improve participants' social moral consciousness.

[fei

大赃疋里j曰孙拟

www.nnai_o「ci.cn

REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	INDEPENDENT INNOVATION PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  创新发展 协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTURING  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展
		2015 Social Responsibility Report i	'Report preface	2016社会责任报告	/共享发展

“瑞风MPV慈善中国行”活动

"Joint action ■ jianghai" activities

“涛风MPV慈®中国行"活动，是江淮汽车与免费午餐基金于2012年共
同发起的国内首个车友爰心垄力大a公益活动。2016年，先后在河北、山西、
湖南、责阳、河ft、安徽举办6站活动，江淮爱心车队不仅为孩子带去了沉
甸甸的物资，更传达了对孩子_":管康与教150^1关切，也彰显了江淮汽车不遗余
力承担社兰责任承诺。

The "ruifeng MPV charity China line" is the first major public service initiative
launched by jianghuai automobile and the free lunch fund in 2012. In 2016,
successively in hebei? shanxi, henan, anhui, hunan, guiyang 6 station activities,
jianghuai love team not only for the children brought heavy materials, convey more
health and education for children’s concerns, and highlights the jianghuai auto
spare no effort to bear the social responsibility of the commitment.

对口帮扶

Counterpart support

2016年，公司从推进安徽发展新跨越的高度来认识和做好对口帮扶工作，把对口扶贫工作摆在重要
议事日程，明确分管领导，做到分工到位，责任到人，真正把扶贫工作任务落在了实处。全年，公司对
六安市先生店乡、叶集实验区观山村、黄山富溪乡富溪村、潜山县龙潭乡龙湾村等4家结对单位及临时结
对单位给与大力帮扶和支持，共投入资金123万元。

In 2016, the company from the height of the promote the development of anhui new crossing to get to
know and do a good job in counterpart to assist the counterpart poverty alleviation work in the important
agenda, specifically in charge of the leadership, to achieve the division of labor in place, responsibility to the
people, truly left poverty alleviation work in effect. Throughout the year, the company to Mr Regarding luan
shop township, yeji experimental area, huangshan wealthy creek township and village creek village, qianshan
county longtan township longwan village four pair unit and temporary pairing vigorously support and the
support, a total investment capital is 1.23 million yuan.

\ir

投入资金
Invested capital

FOCUS ON DEALER SATISFACTION

培育专业化志愿者队til

公3根制年L4公益活动规划，指导事业部及相X单位开屐公益系列活动，积极营
造良好的“人人车献爱心、人人参与公益”的企业S围。截止到2016萆，公司共拥冇
各级B年忐愿名爿82人，累计服务时长达11000小时。

482

公司组织志愿者走进社区关爰退休孤寡老人，走进合肥儿童福利院、幼儿园、敬
老院提供志愿服务，围绕重要爷日、纪念日及公司重大活动和企业生产经营开展各类
志愿服务，服务员工、服务企业、回报社会。

拥有各级青年志愿者

Have young volunteers at all levels

Company according to the annual public welfare activities planning, guidance
department and related units to carry out series of public welfare activities, actively create
a good "all compassion, all participate in public welfare" of the enterprise atmosphere. As
of 2016, the company has 482 young volunteers at all levels, with a total service of
11,000 hours.

Company organization volunteers into the community care retired elderly singles,
into the children's welfare home hefei, kindergartens and nursing homes to provide
volunteer service, on important festivals, anniversaries and major events and the
enterprise production and management to carry out all kinds of volunteer service, the
service employees, service enterprises, social returns.

II000

累计服务时长达

Have young volunteers at all levels

MDI关键定_指

www.rnqi.or

			三〇〇三		IO	
REPORT PREFACE  报告前言	SYSTEM SECURITY  体系保障	IN D E P E N D E NT IN NOVATIO N  创新发展	PURSUING THE EXCELLENCE  协调发展	PEOPLE-ORIENTED  绿色发展	GREEN MANUFACTUfyNG  开放发展	LEADING QUALITY  共享发展

2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface	2016社会责任振告	/ 只早发展

KEY PERFORMANCE

INDICATOR

关键纟贡效表

市场绩效指标  Indicators of market performance	2016 年  Year 2016	2015 年  Year 2015	2014 年  Year 2014
主营业务收入（万元）  Prime operating revenue (10 ttiousand CNY)	5249055.68	4638591.23	3416940.84
净利润（万元）  Net profit (10 thousand CNY)	121461.07	85758.18	52870
每股收益（元）  Earnings per share (CNY)	0.72	0.59	0.7
资产负债率（％)  Asset-liability ratio (%)	68.57	74.07	72.64
研发投入（万元）  R&D investment (ten thousand CNY)	215834.17	185693.27	146352
合同履约率（％) Agreement lulfillment rate (%)	100%	100%	100%
社会绩效指标  Social performance indicator	2016 年  Year 2016	2015 年  Year 2015	2014 年  Year 2014
纳税额（万元）  Ratal amount (ten thousand CNY)	220719.30	196360.85	146936.28
员工总人数（人）  Quantity of employees (person)	32899	32507	20763
劳动合同签订率（％)  Labor contract signing rate (%)	100%	100%	100%
社会保险覆盖率（％)  Social insurance coverage rate (%)	100%	100%	100%
工会覆盖率（％)  Labor union coverage rate (%)	100%	100%	100%
女性管理者比例（女：男）  Female administrator ratio (female : male)	1:7.08	1:8.76	1:9.44
残疾人雇佣率（％)  Disabled employment rate (%)	0.44%	0.45%	0.45%
员工体检覆盖率（％)  Physical examination coverage rate (%)	100%	100%	100%
职业病发生率（％)  Onn inatinnal diRflaRft rata (°/^	0%	0%	0%

员工培训总投入（万元）  Employment education invest (ten thousand CNY)	1742	914	1079
员工培训覆盖率（％)  Employment education coverage rate (%)	100%	100%	100%
人均培训时间（学时）  Education time per people (class hour)	80.9	106.35	105.8
员工满意度（分） Employee satisfaction (points)	81.91	78.97	74.12
员工敬业度（分） Employee engagement (points)	84.54	81.66	75.85
员工流失率（％)  Employee turnover rate (%)	7.19%	6.91%	9.44%
公益捐赠（万元）  Public donating amount (ten thousand CNY)	157	110	100
志愿者人数（人）  Quantity of volunteers (person)	482	482	460
环境绩效指标  Environment performance indicators	2016 年  Year 2016	2015 年  Year 2015	2014 年  Year 2014
环保总投资（万元）  Investment of environment protection (ten thousand CNY)	2847	5423	6266.49
单位产值能耗（吨标准卿元）  Energy consumption per unit of output value (see/ ten thousand cny)	0.0101	0.012	0.0126
单位产值水耗（吨水/万元）  Water consumption per unit of output value (ton water/ ten thousand CNY)	0.27	0.34	0.40
单位产值能源节约量（吨标准煤历元）  Energy consumption per unit of output value (see/ ten thousand cny)	0.0019	0.0006	0.0009
COD排放量（吨）  COD discharge (ton)	89.3	88.28	100
废渣循环利用率（吨）  Waste water discharge (ton)	93	93	74
废水循环利用率（吨）  Waste residue discharge (ton)	92.58	92.13	91.28

OUTLOOK2017

展望2017

2017年是“十三五”深化之年，公司将继续深入践行
“敬客经营、质量为本、求真务实”的核心价值观，强化社
会责任管理体系建设，矢志追求为全球客户制造更好的产
品，创建世界知名汽车品牌。用中国品牌，讲中国故事，造
江汽好车，谱江汽新篇。让环境因我们的不断进步而变得更
加和谐，让社会因我们的不懈努力而变得更加美好。

Is "much starker choices-and graver consequences-in"
deepening the year of 2017, the company will continue to further
practice of "respect the customer management, the quality for
this, practical" core values, strengthen the social responsibility
management system construction, make better products for
global customers, concentrating to create the world famous auto
brand. Use the Chinese brand, tell the story of China, build the
steam car, and the new paper. Let the environment become
more harmonious because of our progress, let society become
better because of our unremitting efforts.

责任指标

展型2017

Responsibility indicators

社会责任管理体系建设

Responsibility indicators

•健全和宂S公3社会sf「管理体系，合迚制定2017年社会责仃年度绩效把标

Construction of social responsibility
management system

We will improve and improve the system of corporate social responsibility management, and
formulate the annual performance indicators for social responsibility in 2017

•落实企业社*责仟，强化社会责任丄作规划，系统开展社会责仃管理活动
We will implement corporate social responsibility, strengthen social responsibility work
planning and carry out social responsibility management activities

•进一步强化社会贾f「工作公司品牌迁设丄作的融合

We will further strengthen the integration of social responsibility work with the construction of
corporate brands

•继续元s企业与利益相关方的沟通机制

We will continue to improve the communication mechanism between enterprises and
stakeholders

•继续完甚社会寅任报吿jR标体系

We will continue to improve the system of reporting on social responsibility

MOI

•定期开展社会责任培训工作

Conduct social responsibility training regularly

	2015 Social Responsibility Report / Report preface 201 6社会责任报告 / 展望2017

经济发展责任  Construction of social responsibility management system	•以效益为中心，以变革为动力，用求H务实额态度，全面提升企业经营能力  We will improve and improve the system of corporate social responsibility management, and formulate the annual performance indicators for social responsibility in 2017  •促进产业结构升级，推进经济增长方式进一步转变  We will promote upgrading of the industrial structure and further transform the pattern of economic growth  •加大巩固产品在国内各细分市场占有率，牢固商用车在海外市场的领先地位， 推逬乘用车在海外市场的优势地位  We will further strengthen the integration of social responsibility work with the construction of corporate brands  •注重周边地区建设，为当地的经济发展和构建和谐社会贡献力量。  We will continue to improve the communication mechanism between enterprises and stakeholders
自主创新责任  Construction of social responsibility management system	•坚持走“五讲四养”研发路线，深化五层次研发体系  We will improve and improve the system of corporate social responsibility management, and formulatethe annual performance indicators for social responsibility in 2017  •强化NAM流程研发管理，以市场为基础，精准把握并控制研发项目的投入产出比  We will implement corporate social responsibility, strengthen social responsibility work planning and carry out social responsibility management activities  •保持新能源全国产业化第一的优势  We will further strengthen the integration of social responsibility work with the construction of corporate brands  •推进GDI、DCT技术成果运用  We will continue to improve the communication mechanism between enterprises
员工成长责任  Construction of social responsibility management system	•鉴定不移地根据“十三五”人力资源规划，实施人才强企战略  To identify and implement the strategy of manpower resource planning based on "13th five— year" human resource planning
	•坚持“以人为本”的管理理念，为员工创造更优的工作环境  We will implement corporate social responsibility, strengthen social responsibility work planning and carry out social responsibility management activities  •继续完善员工福利保障机制，提供员工生活质量和幸福指数  We will further strengthen the integration of social responsibility work with the construction of corporate brands  •注重员工职业生涯规划，完善员工培训体系，加大培训费用投入，挤员工成长平台 We will continue to improve the communication mechanism between enterprises and stakeholders  •加强民主管理和民主监督，维护员工合法权益，丰富员工精神生活，营造和谐 企业氛围  We will continue to improve the communication mechanism between enterprises and stakeholders

节能环保责任

Construction of social responsibility
management system

•继续完善环境管理体系，全面实现2017年各项环境能源管理目标

We will improve and improve the system of corporate social responsibility management, and
formulate the annual performance indicators for social responsibility in 2017

•深耕企业绿色文化，倡导低K环保' 积极参加环境保护公益活动

We will promote upgrading of the industrial structure and further transform the pattern of
economic growth

•加大环保总iS资，结续推广绿色：U5建设

We will further strengthen the integration of social responsibility work with the construction of
corporate brands

•继续实矻绿色生产制造：推进能妇资肋循环利用、环保创新等举措

We will continue to improve the communication mechanism between enterprises and
stakeholders

精益生产责任

Construction of social responsibility
management system

•继续完s质墨苣迓体系，强化产品质^控管机制，确保产品合格宇

We will improve and improve the system of corporate social responsibility management, and
formulate the annual performance indicators for social responsibility in 2017

•持续深入打造“品质JAC”，积极鼓励员工开展质量改善工作，提升全员质量
责任意识

We will implement corporate social responsibility, strengthen social responsibility work
planning and carry out social responsibility management activities

•继续完善安全生产管理体系，健全安全管理网络，以正激励为导向，提升全员
安全生产责任意识，圆满完成2017年安全生产责任指标

We will implement corporate social responsibility, strengthen social responsibility work
planning and carry out social responsibility management activities

继续完善和优化供应体系，建设主机厂商与配套企业的学习型供应链，确保竞
争力优势

To identify and implement the strategy of manpower resource planning based on "13th five—
year" human resource planning

•继续打造绿色供应链，严格鉴别供应商运营资质，督促供应商加强资源节约和
环境保护行为

To identify and implement the strategy of manpower resource planning based on "13th five-
year" human resource planning

•继续提升本地化采购比例

We will improve and improve the system of corporate social responsibility management, and
formulate the annual performance indicators for social responsibility in 2017

采购管理责任

Construction of social responsibility
management system

守法合规责任

Construction of social responsibility
management system

用户满意责任

Construction of social responsibility
management system

采购管理责任

Construction of socia丨 responsibility
management system

•严格遵守国际法律法规，深入开屈*洁风险防控丄作

We will improve and improve the system of corporate social responsibility management, and
formulate the annual performance indicators for socia丨 responsibility in 2017

•严格遵守合同法及商业规则，坚持诚信经营，加强战略合作，实现与利益相关
方共同发展

We will promote upgrading of the industrial structure and further transform the pattern of
economic growth

•完善企业内控体系建设，P牵低企业运营风险

Improve the internal control system and「educe the risk of operation

•加强守法合规培训力度，规范企业管理准则

Improve the internal control system and reduce the risk of operation

•坚持“敬客经营、服务销车”的营销理念，建立健全公司级以客户为中心的
营销管理体系

Adhere to the marketing idea of"jingguan operation, service pin car", and establish a sound
corporate level with customer focus Marketing management system

•强化售后服务能力，打造一流的服务品牌，为用户提供满意服务

We will improve and improve the system of corporate social responsibility management, and
formulate the annual performance indicators for social responsibility in 2017

•深耕质量文化建设，积极保持与用户沟通，建立信任的双方关系，提升品牌
的忠诚度。

We will improve and improve the system of corporate social responsibility management, and
formulate the annual performance indicators for social responsibility in 2017

•积极参与社区建设，建立良好的企业公民形象

Improve the internal control system and reduce the risk of operation

•积极参与重大社会问题的协助与帮困，努力创造就业机会

Improve the internal control system and reduce the risk of operation

•以“关爰弱势群体”为公益重点，开展有效的公益特色活动及项目

Improve the internal control system and reduce the risk of operation

•积极打造具有特色的志愿者队伍

Improve the internal control system and reduce the risk of operation

REPORTING GUIDELINES

FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INDEX

可持续发展报告索引

nRi		索引	GRI		索引
		index			index
战略与分析	G4-1	P1-P4	利益相关方	G4-24	P14
Strategy And Analysis	G4-2	P1 P4 P9-P10	参与  Stakeholder	G4-25	P15
			Participation	G4-26	P17-P19
公司概况  Organization  Profile	G4-3	P5		G4-27	P17-P19
	G4-4	P5			
	G4-5	P5	报告简介	G4-28	报告概况
	G4-6	P44	About This Report	G4-29	报告概况
	G4-7	P5		G4-30	报告概况
	G4-8	P6		G4-31	报告概况
	G4-9	P5-P6		G4-32	报告概况
	G4-10	P98		G4-33	P106-P107
	G4-11	PQQ			
					
	G4-12	P49	公司治理	G4-34	P16
	G4-13	P6-P7	Corporate  Governance	G4-35	P16
	G4-14	P53-P54		G4-36	P16
	G4-15	P45		G4-37	报告概况
		P92-P94		G4-38	P16
	G4-16	P8		G4-39	P16
				G4-40	P16
实质性议题	G4-17	P98		G4-41	P16 P46
识别及边界  Substantive	G4-18	报告概况		G4-42	P14-P16
Issues	G4-19	P12-P19		G4-43	P14-P16
Recognition And Boundary		P21-38		04-44	P14-P16
	G4-20	P41-P60		G4-45	P14-P16
		P58-P67  P69-P78		G4-46	P14-P16
		P80-P90		G4-47	P14-P16
		P92-P97		G4-48	P14
	G4-21	报告概况		G4-49	P14-P16
	G4-22	报告概况		G4-50	P14
	G4-23	报告概况		G4-51	P58-P59

GRI		索引  index
	G4-52	P58-P59
	G4-53	P58-P59
	G4-54	P58-P59
	G4-55	P58-P59
道德和合规	G4-56	P12-P13
Ethics And Compliance	G4-57  G4-58	P53-P54  P53-P54
经济缋效 指标	G4-EC1	P41  P98-P99
Economic  Performance  Indicators	G4-EC2  G4-EC3	P9-P10  P58  P98-P99
	G4-EC4	P5
	G4-EC5	P59
	G4-EC6	P98
	G4-EC7	P92-P94
	G4-EC8	P92-P94
	G4-EC9	P92
环境缋效	G4-EN1	不
指标  Environmental  Performance  Indicators	G4-EN2  G4-EN3	P73  不
	G4-EN4	不
	G4-EN5	不
	G4-EN6	不
	G4-EN7	不翻
	G4-EN8	P76-P78

MDI关键定量指标数据库

www.mqLorg.cn

GRI		索引  index	GRI		索引  index	GRI		索引  index
	G4-EN9	无此类情况	劳工缋效	G4-LA1	P58		G4-S03	P53-P54
	G4-EN10	不适用	指标	G4-LA2	P64		G4-S04	P54
	G4-EN11		Labor  Performance	G4-LA3	P58		G4-S05	无此类情况
			Indicators	G4-LA4	P63		G4-S06	P97
	G4-EN12	不适用		G4-LA5	P58 P63		G4-S07	无此类情况
	G4-EN13	不适用		G4-LA6	P88-P90		G4-S08	无此类情况
	G4-EN14	不适用		G4-LA7	P88-P90		G4-S09	未涉及
	G4-EN15	未涉及		G4-LA8	P88		G4-SO10	无此类情况
				G4-LA9	P60		G4-S011	无此类情况
	G4-EN16	未涉及		G4-LA10	P60-P61			
	G4-EN17	未涉及		G4-LA11	P59-P61			
	G4-EN18	未涉及		G4-LA12	P58	产品缋效	G4-PR1	P82-P87
	G4-EN19	未涉及		G4-LA13	P59	指标	G4-PR2	无此类情况
				G4-LA14	未涉及		G4-PR3	P80-P87
	G4-EN20	未涉及		G4-LA15	P49	Indicators	G4-PR4	无此类情况
	G4-EN21	P77-P78		G4-LA16	无此类情况		G4-PR5	P51-P52
	G4-EN22	P70-P78					G4-PR6	无此类情况
	G4-EN23	P70-P71	人权缋效	G4-HR1	P98		G4-PR7	无此类情况
		P78	指标	G4-HR2	P60		G4-PR8	无此类情况
	G4-EN24	无此类情况	Human Rights Performance	G4-HR3	无此类情况		G4-PR9	无此类情况
	G4-EN25	无此类情况	Indicators	G4-HR4	无此类情况			
				G4-HR5	无此类情况			
	G4-EN26	不适用		G4-HR6	无此类情况			
	G4-EN27	未涉及		G4-HR7	P88-90			
	G4-EN28	未涉及		G4-HR8	无此类情况			
	G4-EN29	无此类情况		G4-HR9	无此类情况			
				G4-HR10	未涉及			
	G4-EN30	P70-P75		G4-HR11	未涉及			
	G4-EN31	P72 P99		G4-HR12	无此类情况			
	G4-EN32	未涉及						
	G4-EN33	P70-P71	缋效	G4-S01	P92-P94			
			J曰标	G4-S02	无此类情况			
	G4-EN34	无此类情况	Social					
			Performance					
			Indicators					

FROM ACCORDINGLY PARTIES

相关方评价

《安徽江淮汽车集团股份有限公司2016社会责任报告》（以下简称《报告》），结合“创新、协调、绿色、开放、共
享”五大发展理念，充分阐述了江淮汽车“为员工谋幸福、为社会做贡献”的企业社会责任观，全面披露了在“敬客经营、
质量为本、求真务实”核心价值观的指引下，江淮汽车坚持“有效益、有技术、有品质、有特色、有规模”的经营方针，积
极携手利益相关方，共同创造经济、社会和环境综合价值最大化的履责过程。

江淮汽车自2011年以来，坚持每年发布社会责任报告，树立了负责任的国企形象，为我省工业企业社会责任管理体系的
建设发挥了积极的作用。希望江淮汽车全面贯彻落实党的十八大和十八届五中、六中、七中全会精神，在“五大发展理念”
的指导下，稳步提升企业经营效益和质量，努力创建世界知名汽车品牌，为建设美好安徽、实现中国梦做出更大的贡献。

Anhui jianghuai automobile group co., LTD. 2016 social responsibility report "(hereinafter referred to as the" report "); in
combination with "innovation, coordination, green, open, sharing" five development philosophy, fully expounds the jianghuai auto
"seeks happiness fo「e_oyees and contribute to society” concept of corporate social responsibility, full disclosure on ''respect
customer management，the quality fo「this, practical” under the guidance of core values, jianghuai auto stick to "efficiency,
technology, quality, features, size of" the management policy, positive stakeholders, hand in hand together to create economic,
social and environment comprehensive value maximization process of fulfillment of the responsibilities.

Jianghuai auto since 2011, adhere to social responsibility report released each yea「，establish a responsible image in state-
owned enterprises, fo「the construction of our province industrial enterprise social responsibility management system has played a
positive「ole. Hope jianghuai auto comprehensively implement the party’s 18th and the 18th session of five, no.6 middle school,
including all the spirit, under the guidance of the "big five'1 development concept ", steadily improving the quality of enterprise
management benefit and7 efforts to create the world famous auto brand, to build good anhui, realize China’s d「eam to make greater
contribution.

安徽省人民政府国有资产监督委员会

State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration
Commission of People's Government of Anhui Province

从《安徽江淮汽车集团股份有限公司2016社会任报告》可以看出，江淮汽车为満足日a増_K的消费，求不iff追求产
业技术进步，并致力于朽汽车产业发展成为国民经济的支打产业。

江淮汽车积极践行社会责任观，2016年做到以下几点：一是实现了*夬速增为a家经济发展..社会就业和交通改3
做出了贡献；二足高度&视核心能力的提升，技术创新水平不断提高；三k以开放..包苎的迚念争取了最广泛的合咋共
实现了江淮汽车全产业链的健康良性发展；四是积极支持公益事业，参与环境保护与治3、交通安全、弱势群体扶助等活
动。

对社会，江淮汽车致力于做1A责任的企业公民，积极倡马绿色生活：不新f/_大；！业，促迸社会、经济和环境的可持续发
K;对客户，江淮汽车“度S视终端客户的满意度：为客户提供安全、可ffi、环保的绿色出行_决方案；对员工，江淮汽车
视员工为创造价值的根本，鼓励员工爱岗敬业…展现才牮和忘诚太爾；对合〃丨i伙伴，江淮汽车以诚笮、平等和共惠的方式：
与台作伙伴建立共创价但、共享价值、共担风验长迎合咋关系，

中策橡胶作为江淮汽车的战略合作伙z乳挎与江淮汽车风雨R舟共成长，共同为发展民族工业..打造世界知名汽车g牌
做贞献。

中笫橡胶集0有限公司

From anhui jianghuai automobile group co., LTD. 2016 social responsibility report, you can see, jianghuai automobile in order
to meet the growing consumer demand and the unremitting pursuit of industry technological progress, and is committed to the
automotive industry to develop into a pillar industry of national economy.

Jianghuai auto actively practicing social responsibility view, 2016, do the following: one is to realize the rapid growth of the
national economic development, social employment and traffic improvement has made a contribution; Second, we will attach great
importance to the development of core capabilities and improve the level of technological innovation. Third, we have sought the
broadest cooperation for win-win cooperation with an open and inclusive spirit, and achieved the healthy and sound development
of the entire industrial chain of the jac. Fourth, we will actively support public undertakings and participate in activities such as
environmental protection and governance, transportation security and the assistance of disadvantaged groups.

To society, jianghuai auto is committed to be a responsible corporate citizen, actively advocate g「een life, expanding
employment, promoting the sustainable development of society, economy and environment; To customers, jianghuai automobile
attaches great importance to the satisfaction of end customers, and provides customers with a safe, reliable and environment-
friendly g「een travel solution. To employees, jianghuai auto sees employees as the foundation for creating value, encouraging
employees to be devoted to thei「wo「k, showing their talents and devotion. Fo「partners, jianghuai automobile, in good faith,
equality and win—win with partners to create value, share value, risk is a long_te「m cooperation「elationship.

Zhongce rubber as strategic partners of jianghuai auto, will, growing together with jianghuai automobile thin together for the
development of national industry, a world famous auto brancl.

Zhongce rubber group co.; LTD

OPINION FEEDBACK
CHART

意见反馈表

为了持续改进安徽江淮汽车股份有限公司社会责任工作
及社会责任报告编制工作，我们特别希望倾听您的意见和建
议。请您协助完成意见反馈表中的相关问题，并传真到
0551-62296867〇

选择性问题：（请在相应的位置选择打）

Optional questions (pis mark in the corresponding places)

In order to continuously improve the editing job on
Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co., Ltd. Social
Responsibility Work and Social Responsibility Report,
we especially hope to listen to your opinions and
suggestions. Pis kindly answer the questions in the
feedback chart and fax it to 0551 -62296867.

1.本拫告全面，准确地反映了安徽江淮汽车股份有限公司的社会责任工作状况？

This report reflects the social responsibility work situation of Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co., Ltd.
completely and correctly?

□很好/Wei丨□$交好/Better	□—般/General □$交差/Relatively Poor □很差/Poor

2.本报告对利益相关方所关心的问题进行回应和披露？

This report answers and reveals the questions that the interest interrelated party concerns?

□很好/Well □$交好/Better □—般/General □$交差/Relatively Poor □很差/Poor

3.本报告披露的数据清晰、准确、完整？

The information revealed in the report is clear, correct and complete?

□很好/We 丨丨□$交好/Better	□_般/General 口较差/Relatively Poor	□很差/Poor

4.本报告的可读性，即报告的逻辑主线、内容设计、语言文字和版式设计？

This report is readable with its logic mainline, content design, language, and format design?

□很好/Well	□较好/Better	□—般/General	□$交差/Relatively Poor □很差/Poor

开放性问题Open questions:

1.您认为本报告最让您满意的方面是什么？
What do you think is the most satisfied to you?

2.您认为还有哪些您需要了解的信息在本报告中没有反映？

What do you think is not reflected in this report that is necessary to know?

3.您对我们今后的社会责任工作及社会责任报告发布有何建议？

What suggestions do you have for our future social responsibility work and social responsibility report releasing?

如果方便，请告诉我们关于您的信息：  If possible, pis let us know your information:			
姓名/Name:	机构/organization:	邮编/Postal Code:	电话/Tel:
职业/Profession:	地址/Ad dress:	E-mail ：	传真/Fax:

扫描关注
JAC官方微信